
Project funding 项目资金
===============

Once you have made the business case for open source, you'll need a
project plan and time-phased budget covering the costs to launch and
maintain the project over time. Some of the costs are one-time and
others are recurring. Examples of such costs include the following:

商业方案一旦开源，你就需要制定一个项目计划以及各阶段的预算，包括随着时间的推移启动和维护项目的成本；其中一些费用是一次性的，其他的则会重复发生。举例来说，这类成本可能包括：

-   Internal legal efforts leading to posting the code publicly

-   Ongoing IT project infrastructure and cloud credits (when
    applicable)

<!-- -->

-   Trademark management

-   Creative and branding (logo, website, signage at events, etc.)

-   Project management

-   Regularly scheduled open source license compliance and security
    scans

-   Community events and hackathons

- 通过有计划的内部法务活动指引公开的代码发布

- 持续的 IT 基础设施和云服务配额（如适用）支持

- 商标管理

- 创意与品牌化（LOGO，网站，活动标识等）

- 项目管理

- 定期计划开源许可证合规及安全相关扫描

- 社区活动与黑客马拉松

Legal considerations 法律考量
====================

On the legal side, there are five major activities that need to be
executed. These include:

在法律层面，有 5 个主要的活动需要执行，包括： 


1.  Confirming ownership of all the source code intended for open source

2.  Conducting intellectual property review

3.  Choosing an open source license

4.  Applying the license terms to the code and updating the license
    information in the source code

5.  Cleaning up the source code before posting it in public

1. 确认开源项目相关的所有源代码的所有权

2. 进行知识产权审查

3. 选择一个开源许可证

4. 应用许可证条款到代码并更新源代码中的许可证信息

5. 在公开发布前清理源代码

In the following subsections, we cover these various activities and
provide recommendations where applicable.

在下面的小节中，我们将介绍这些活动，并适时提供建议。


 Confirm ownership of all the code 确认代码所有权 
---------------------------------

One of the risks in open sourcing proprietary technology is the acci-
dental inclusion of third-party proprietary code as part of the open
sourced code. Before releasing any code under an open source license,
it is highly recommended that an organization holds all the rights and
permissions necessary to open source the code.

开源自有技术的风险之一是意外将第三方专有代码作为开源代码的一部分。在根据开源许可证发布任何代码之前，强烈建议组织确认拥有开源代码所需的所有权利和权限。


Some of the steps in this exercise include the following:

此活动的部分步骤如下：

-   Auditing the source code with a software composition analysis (SCA)
    tool1

-   Identifying third-party source code---open source or commercial

-   Determining whether you have the right to open source any found
    third-party commercial code under an open source license; if the
    answer is no, you cannot open source some third-party code, then you
    need to provide alternate code
    
- 使用软件成分分析（SCA）工具审核源代码

- 识别第三方源代码 —— 无论开源的还是商业的

- 确认你是否有权根据开源许可证对任何发现的第三方商业代码进行开源；如果答案是否定的，则无法开源那些第三方代码，你需要提供可替代代码

Conduct intellectual property review 进行知识产权审查
------------------------------------

Software likely subject to patent or other intellectual property
claims is not an ideal candidate for open source release. Here are
questions to ask to help you with this exercise:

可能受到专利或其他知识产权保护的软件，不是开源发布的理想候选软件。回答以下问题可以帮助你完成此活动：


-   Does the code disclose or realize any inventions the company plans
    to protect through patents?

° If the answer is yes, then you need to decide whether to remove the
code, establish an IP policy, or make a nonassertion pledge. In all
cases, your legal counsel will make the appropriate recommendations
for next steps when such a scenario arises.

-   Will the source code release trigger patent claims against the
    open-source software?

° If the answer is yes, then you have to remove and replace the
protected code or seek appropriate licenses or permissions.

-   Does the name you chose for the open source project (assuming you're
    starting a new project) protectable under trademark law? Does the
    name or any trademarks

associated with or registered to the project present any risk of
infringement claims?

- 该代码是否披露或实现了公司计划通过专利保护的任何发明？

    ° 如果答案是肯定的，那么需要决定是移除代码、建立 IP 策略还是做出不声明承诺。在任何情况下，当出现这种情形时，你的法律顾问都会为接下来的步骤提出适当的建议。

- 该源代码的发布会引发对开源软件的专利索赔吗？

    ° 如果答案是肯定的，那么你必须移除并替换受保护的代码，或寻求更适合的许可证或权限。

- 你为开源项目所选的名称（假设您正启动一个新项目）是否受商标法保护？与项目相关的或已注册的名称或商标是否存在侵权索赔风险？

Choose the open source license 选择开源许可证
------------------------------

The license of an open source project determines the rights to use,
copy, modify, and distribute the code. The choice of license for an
open source project is an essential factor in determining the openness
of the project. Open source projects should only use licenses that the
[[Open Source Initiative]{.underline}](https://opensource.org/) has
approved. Such licenses allow software to be freely used, modified,
and shared. To be approved by the Open Source Initiative, a license
must go

through its [[license review
process]{.underline}](https://opensource.org/approval) to confirm that
the license satisfies its [[Open Source
Definition]{.underline}](https://opensource.org/osd) (OSD). You may
come across many other licenses that are incompatible with the OSD.
Most of these licenses are "Source Available" licenses that commonly

include restrictions or limitations on the use and/or distribution of
the software. These restrictions often render the licenses incom-
patible with the OSD.

开源项目的许可证定义了使用、复制、修改和分发代码的权利。开源项目的许可证选择是决定项目开放性的一个重要因素。开源项目只能使用[[Open Source Initiative]{.underline}](https://opensource.org/)已批准的许可证。这类许可证允许软件自由使用、修改和共享。要获得Open Source Initiative的批准，许可证必须通过[[license review process]{.underline}](https://opensource.org/approval)确认其满足[[Open Source Definition]{.underline}](https://opensource.org/osd) (OSD)。你可能会遇到许多其他与 OSD 不兼容的许可证。这些许可证中的大多数是"Source Available"许可证，通常包括对软件的使用和/或分发的约束或限制。这些限制通常使许可证与 OSD 不兼容。

It is always recommended to adopt an OSI-approved open source license.
The choice of the specific license depends on the specific goals you
want to achieve as an organization. We preview in this section some of
the questions that will drive a discussion on this topic and help you
make a decision on the license to adopt.

始终建议采用 OSI 批准的开源许可证。具体许可证的选择取决于你作为一个组织想要实现的具体目标。在本节中，我们将预览一些问题，这些问题将推动关于此主题的讨论，并帮助你决定所要采用的许可证。

-   Do you want to relinquish control over how others use and distribute
    the code?

-   Do you want to allow others to use the code in commercial programs
    and products?

-   If others use the code in their program and sell it for money, do
    you want a percentage of those revenues?

-   If others use and distribute the code and improve it (e.g., fix bugs
    or add features), do you want them to contribute those improvements
    back to the project?
    
-   是否要放弃控制他人如何使用和分发代码？

-   是否允许他人在商业程序和产品中使用该代码？

-   如果他人在其程序中使用代码并将其出售，你想要获得这些收入的一部分吗？

-   如果他人使用和分发代码并对其进行改进（例如修复漏洞或增加特性），你是否希望他们将这些改进贡献给项目？

What licenses will you accept for contributed code?

你希望在何种许可证下接受贡献代码？

-   Will you require a Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) or a
    Contributor License Agreement (CLA) as a contribution requirement?
    
-   是否需要开发者溯源认证（DCO）或贡献者许可协议（CLA）作为贡献要求？


There may be additional questions to consider as part of this
exercise, which is mainly driven by your legal counsel and tech-
nology leaders within your organization.

作为此活动的一部分，可能还需要考虑其他问题，这主要由你的法律顾问和组织内的技术领导者推动。


##### DCO
##### DCO

The DCO sign-off process ensures that every single line of code
accepted into a project has a clear audit trail. It is a developer's
certification that they have the right to submit code for inclu- sion
into the project. The Linux kernel process, for instance, requires all
contributors to sign off their code, which indicates that the
contributor certifies the code, as outlined in the
[[DCO]{.underline}](https://developercertificate.org/). The signature
communicates that the contributor has created or received the
contribution under an appropriate open source license that
incorporates it into the project's codebase under the license
indicated in the file. The DCO establishes a chain

of people who take responsibility for the licensing and prove- nance
of contributions to the project.

DCO 签署流程确保了项目中接受的每一行代码都有清晰的审计跟踪。这是开发者有权提交代码到项目中的凭证。例如，Linux 内核流程要求所有贡献者为其提交的代码做签名，以示贡献者证明自己的代码如[[DCO]{.underline}](https://developercertificate.org/)所述。 签名表明贡献者根据适当的开源许可证创建或接收了贡献，该许可证根据文件中所示的许可证将其纳入项目的代码库。DCO 建立了一个负责许可和证明项目贡献的人员链。

##### CLA
##### CLA

Some projects require either developers or their employers to sign a
CLA. Unlike the DCO, the text of CLAs can vary signifi- cantly from
project to project, so the terms of any given CLA may have different
effects. The purpose of a CLA is to ensure that the guardian of a
project's outputs has the necessary ownership or grants of rights over
all contributions to allow them to distribute under the chosen
license. In some cases, this even means that the contributor will
grant an irrevocable license, which allows the project to distribute
the contribution as part of the project.

有些项目要求开发者或其雇主签署 CLA 。与 DCO 不同，CLA 的内容可能会因项目而异，因此任何给定的 CLA 条款可能具有不同的效果。CLA 的目的是确保项目产出的监护人对所有贡献拥有必要的所有权或授予的权利，以允许他们在选定的许可证下进行分发。在某些情况下，这甚至意味着贡献者将授予不可撤销的许可，允许项目将贡献作为项目的一部分进行分发。

Apply license terms to the code 应用许可证条款到代码
-------------------------------

Once the source code has been cleaned up following the recom-
mendations provided in a previous step, it is time to apply the
license terms to the code. This exercise includes the following steps:

一旦按照上一步中提供的建议清理了源代码，就应该将许可条款应用于代码。该项活动包括以下步骤：

-   Add license header and copyright notice to every source code file

-   Clearly designate the license on the project's website, any
    frequently asked questions (FAQ) that you provide, and the download
    page if applicable

-   Use SPDX2 License List "short identifiers" in source files

-   向每个源代码文件添加许可证头信息和版权声明

-   在项目网站上明确指定许可证、常见问题（FAQ）以及下载页面（如果适用）

-   在源文件中使用 SPDX2 许可证列表“短标识符”

Code clean-up 清理代码
-------------

Another risk to open sourcing a project is the inclusion of private
information, confidential communications, and trade secrets. To
minimize this risk, you can take the following actions:

开源一个项目的另一种风险是，包含了私有信息、通信凭证以及商业秘钥等。为了最小化此类风险，可以参考下列行动项：

-   Remove any exposure of nonpublic application programming interfaces
    (APIs).

-   Remove any comments containing employee names or personally
    identifying information, product code names, road maps, future
    product descriptions, or disparagements.

-   Remove any unused or obsolete code from the source code to increase
    the likelihood of the community's making contributions.

-   Create and include a file that contains the license and copyright
    notices of all third-party software and, if applicable, make the
    source code available.

-   If the source code has dependencies on third-party code, then
    provide the necessary information to the community; it's preferred
    that the code does not have any dependencies on non-open source
    components.

-   Remove any third-party proprietary code.

    -   Add a license file in the root directory of the component
        containing the full license text. For instance, if you are
        posting the code on GitHub, you will provide a **LICENSE.md**
        file containing the full text of the open source license

-   移除暴露的任何非公开应用程序接口（API）。

-   删除任何包含员工姓名或个人识别信息、产品代号、路线图、未来产品描述或贬损的评论。

-   从源代码中删除任何未使用或过时的代码，以增加社区做出贡献的可能性。

-   创建并包含一个包含所有第三方软件的许可证和版权声明的文件，并在适用时提供源代码。

-   如果源代码依赖于第三方代码，则向社区提供必要的信息；代码最好不依赖于非开源组件。

-   删除任何第三方专有代码。

    -   在包含完整许可文本的组件的根目录中添加许可文件。例如，如果你在 GitHub 上发布代码，就要提供一个 **LICENSE.md** 文件，其中包含开源许可证的全文。


