**Appendices**

[]{#_bookmark255 .anchor}**APPENDIX A**

CITATIONS OF INCORPORATED MATERIAL FROM OTHER PUBLISHED WORKS

As a public, collaborative project, this Guide is primarily composed
of the many contributions received via its [public contribution
process.](https://k.copyleft.org/guide/files/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
Please [review its Git logs](https://k.copyleft.org/guide/changelog)
for full documentation of all contributions.

Below is a list of CC-By-SA-licensed works, with specific titles and
publication dates, from which any material was incorporated into this
Guide. The specific methods and details of incorporation are fully
documented in the [Git logs](https://k.copyleft.org/guide/changelog)
of the project.

-   [*GPLv3 First Discussion Draft
    > Rationale*](http://gplv3.fsf.org/gpl-rationale-2006-01-16.html),
    > published by the Free Software Foundation on 2006-01-16.

-   [*GPLv3 Second Discussion Draft
    > Rationale*](http://gplv3.fsf.org/opinions-draft-2.html), published
    > by the Free Software Foundation circa 2006-07.

-   [*GPLv3 Third Discussion Draft
    > Rationale*](http://gplv3.fsf.org/gpl3-dd3-guide), published by the
    > Free Software Foundation on 2007-03-28.

-   [*GPLv3 Discussion Draft 3 FAQ*](http://gplv3.fsf.org/dd3-faq) ,
    > published by the Free Software Foundation on 2007-03-28.

-   [*GPLv3 Final Discussion Draft
    > Rationale*](http://gplv3.fsf.org/gpl3-dd4-guide.html), published
    > by the Free Software Foundation on 2007-05-31.

-   [*GPLv3 Final
    > Rationale*](http://www.gnu.org/licences/gpl3-final-rationale.pdf),
    > written and published by the Free Software Foundation on
    > 2007-06-29.

[*A Practical Guide GPL
Compliance*](http://www.softwarefreedom.org/resources/2008/compliance-guide.html),
written by Bradley M. Kuhn, Aaron Williamson and Karen Sandler and
published by the Software Freedom Law Center on 2008-08-20.

[*Software Freedom Law Center Guide to GPL Compliance, 2nd
Edition*](http://www.softwarefreedom.org/resources/2014/SFLC-Guide_to_GPL_Compliance_2d_ed.html),
written by Eben Moglen and Mishi Choudhary and published by the
Software Freedom Law Center on 2014-10-31.

*Detailed Analysis of the GNU GPL and Related Licenses*, written by
Bradley M. Kuhn, Daniel B. Ravicher, and John Sullivan and published
by the Free Software Foundation for its CLE courses on 2004-01-20,
2004-08-24, and 2014-03-24.

*Enforcement Case Studies*, written by Bradley M. Kuhn and published
by the Free Software Foundation for its CLE courses on 2004-01-20,
2004-08-24, and 2014-03-24.

Please note, however, that this list above does not include nor
adequately represent the substantial contributions from those who
directly contributed to this Guide using its Git (and formerly, CVS)
repository. Rather, this is a list of third-party published works from
which any text was herein included under their

CC-By-SA licensing. Thus, as the reader might expect, the [version
control logs](https://k.copyleft.org/guide/changelog) contain the only
true and accurate view available of who has contributed which portions
of this project.

The remaining appendices include a full copy of GPLv2, GPLv3,
LGPLv2.1, LGPLv3, and AGPLv3.

These are the most commonly used licenses in the GPL family of
licenses.

[]{#_bookmark256 .anchor}**APPENDIX B**

# GNU通用公共许可证

第二版，1991年6月

版权所有(C) 1989，1991自由软件基金会

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

任何人都可以复制和发布本许可证完整副本，但不允许修改。

## 译者声明

This is an unofficial translation of the GNU General Public License into Chinese. It was not published by the Free Software Foundation, and does not legally state the distribution terms for software that uses the GNU GPL--only the original English text of the GNU GPL does that. However, we hope that this translation will help Chinese speakers understand the GNU GPL better.

本译文是GNU通用公共许可证的一份非官方中文翻译，并非自由软件基金会所发表，不适用于使用GNU通用公共许可证发布的软件的法律声明——只有GNU通用公共许可证英文原版才具有法律效力。不过我希望本翻译能够帮助中文读者更好地理解GNU通用公共许可证。

You may publish this translation, modified or unmodified, only under the terms at <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/translations.html>.

仅在遵循 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/translations.html> 中的条款时，你才可以经过修改地或者不经过修改地发布本译文。

## 序言

大部分软件的许可证都是被设计为剥夺你分享和修改的自由。相反，GNU通用公共许可证的目的是保护你分享和修改自由软件的自由——确保软件对所有用户都是自由的。本通用公共许可证适用于自由软件基金会的大部分软件以及任何作者承诺使用该许可证的软件（自由软件基金会的其他一些软件受GNU宽松通用许可证的保护）。你也可以将本许可证用于你的程序。

自由软件，强调的是自由，而不是免费。本通用公共许可证的目的是保证你拥有分发自由软件的自由（如果你愿意还可以为此收费），确保你有收到源代码或者想要获得时拥有获得源代码的自由，确保你想要修改或者在新的自由软件中使用其中代码的自由，并且确保你有知情权。

为了保护你的权利，我们设置了一些限制以防止其他人否定你的权利或者要求你放弃你的权利。这些限制在你分发或者修改这些软件时会成为你的责任。

例如，你分发这类软件的副本，无论是免费的或者收费的，你必须授予接收者你拥有的所有权利。你必须保证他们也能收到或者能够获得源代码。并且你也要确保他们也知道他们的权利。

我们通过两步保护你的权利：(1) 授予软件著作权；(2) 赋予你合法复制、分发和修改软件的权利。

此外，为了保护每一位作者和我们自己，我们向每个人声明：自由软件是没有任何品质保证的。如果被其他人修改或者转发，我们希望接收者知道他们收到的不是原始版本，因此其他人引入的任何问题不会影响原作者的声誉。

最后，自由软件还不停地收到软件专利的威胁。我们希望避免自由软件分发者以个人名义获取专利，从而导致自由软件成为私有软件。为了避免这种事情发生，我们明确声明：任何专利必须许可给任何人自由使用或者完全不进行许可。

以下是复制、分发和修改的具体条款和条件。

## 复制、分发与修改条款和条件

0、本许可适用于任何版权持有人在他的程序或作品中声明以通用许可证条款发布的程序或作品。“程序”在下文中是指，任何程序或者作品，“程序的衍生作品”是指程序或者衍生作品包含该程序的全部或者部分，无论是逐字复制地或者经过修改的，或者是翻译成其他语言的。（下文中，翻译属于但不限于修改的范围）。每个被许可人均指“你”。

除复制、分发、修改之外的其他行为不在本许可范围内。运行软件的行为是不受约束的，软件的输出一般不在本许可范围内，除非它构成了本程序的衍生作品（单独通过运行本软件产生）。具体情况依程序用途而定。

1、如果你发布每个副本时，在明显的位置包含适当的版权声明和免责声明，包含本许可证的全部声明和免责声明，你就可以在任何介质上复制和原文分发你收到的软件的源代码。

你可以为你实际发送副本的实际行为收取费用，你也可以提供品质保证收取费用。

2、你可以通过修改本程序副本或者其中任意部分，从而构成衍生作品，并在满足条款1以及下列3点要求的前提下复制或者分发修改的作品。

  a）你必须在修改后的文件带有明显的声明，说明你修改的任何文件和日期。

  b）你必须将你发布或者发表的整个或者部分，或者基于本程序或者任意部分衍生的作品，全部免费地按照本许可证许可给所有第三方。

  c）如果修改后的软件在运行时通常以交互的方式读取命令，你必须在让程序进入交互模式时打印或者显示合适的版权声明和免责声明（或者，你也可以提供品质保证），并且告诉用户可以在本约束下分发本软件，告知用户如何查阅本许可证（例外：如果程序本来就是交互方式的但不打印声明，你的衍生作品也不需要打印声明）。

上述要求对修改后作品的整体有效。如果作品可以独立的部分不是从本软件衍生的，可以合理地将它们作为独立或者单独的作品，进行单独分发，本许可及其条款不适应于它们。但是，当你将它们与本程序的衍生作品一同发布时，分发的作品必须作为一个整体按照本许可证许可，本许可证的授权延伸到全部作品，而无论其任何部分是谁写的。

因此，本条款的目的不是声明或者争辩你创造的作品的全部权利，而是行使控制本程序衍生作品或者集体作品的分发权利。

另外，仅仅与本程序或者衍生作品一同存储或者通过同一个介质上分发的其他非本程序的衍生作品不在本许可证范围内。

3、在上述第1条和第2条约束下，你可以复制或者分发本程序（或根据第2条的衍生作品）的目标代码或者可执行格式分发本程序时，你必须满足下列要求：

a）根据上述第1条和第2条要求，附上完整的、机器可读的源代码，按照常用的软件交换媒介分发。或者

  b）附上至少3年有效期的书面报价，向任何第三方，收取不高于你因分发源代码的实际花费的费用。源代码是根据上述第1条和第2条要求机器可读的完整的源代码，通过常用的软件交换介质分发。或者

  c）附上你所收到的源代码的信息（该要求仅适用于非商业性分发，并且仅当你收到程序是目标代码或者可执行格式，同时还要满足本条款b项要求）。

  作品的源代码是修改作品的首选格式。对于一个可执行的作品，完整的源代码是指其所有模块的所有源代码、相关接口定义文件、编译和安装所需的脚本。然而，作为例外，分发的源代码不必包括任何通常随运行本软件的目标操作系统的主要组件（编译器、内核等）一同分发的（源代码或者二进制）文件，除非它们是本软件的一部分。

如果是通过指定访问位置的形式分发可执行文件或者目标代码，那么提供获取源代码副本相同地址也算分发源代码，即使不要求第三方在复制目标代码时复制源代码。

4、除本许可证许可之外，你不能复制、修改、再许可或者分发本程序。试图进行任何其他形式的复制、修改、再许可或者分发本程序都是无效的，并且本许可证授予你的权利自动终止。然而，只要符合本许可证条款，从你获得副本的其他人的权利仍然有效。

5、你没有签署本许可证，你也不必接受本许可证。而且，此外无人可以授权你修改本程序及其衍生作品。除非你接受本许可证，否则这些行为是被法律禁止的。然而，修改或者分发本软件（或基于本软件的任何作品），表明你接受本许可证复制、分发或者修改本软件或者基于本软件的条款和条件。

6、你每次再分发本程序（或本程序的衍生作品）时，接收者自动从原始权利人获得本许可，以复制、分发或者修改本软件。你不能对他们获得的权利引入任何限制。你也没有要求第三方遵循本许可的责任。

7、如果由于法庭裁决或者专利侵权或者其他原因（不限于专利），使得你面临与本许可证冲突的情况（无论由于法庭裁决、协议或者其他），这也不能成为你不遵守本许可证的理由。如果你不分发本程序，就能满足本许可证条款和其他相关要求，你就不要分发本软件。例如，某专利许可不允许直接或者间接从你获得副本的接受者免费再分发本软件，为了同时满足本许可证和它的要求，你的唯一做法就是不再分发本软件。

如果在特定情况下本条款的任何部分无效或者无法实施，本条款的其余部分仍然适用，并且本条款作为整体适用于其他情况。

本条款的目的不是怂恿你违反任何专利或者其他权利要求，或者与它们抗辩。本条款的目的纯粹是保护自由软件分发系统的完整性，即通过公共许可证来实现。通过一致地应用该分发系统，很多人已经向通过该系统分发的大量软件做出了慷慨的贡献；作者/贡献者也可以决定是否愿意通过其他渠道分发，被授权人无权干涉该决定。

本条款旨在彻底阐明本许可其他条款所带来的当然后果。

8、如果本程序的分发和/或使用收到一些国家专利或者著作权的限制，权利人可以在通过本许可证授权的软件中明确添加受限的地理范围，以排除那些受限的国家，因此分发仍然可以在其他国家进行。这种情况下，本许可将这些限制纳入许可范围内。

9、自由软件基金会可能不时发布通用公共许可证的修订版和/或新版本。此类新版本与当前版本精神上相似，但在描述细节上可能不同，以解决新问题或情况。

每个版本都有一个唯一的版本号。如果软件指定了具体的版本号和“任何后续版本”，你可以选择遵守该版本或者后续版本。如果软件没有指定具体的许可证版本号，你可以选择自由软件基金会发布的任何版本。

10、如果你希望将本软件的部分并于分发条件不同的其他自由软件，应对书面请求作者的许可。对于自由软件基金会拥有著作权的软件，写信给自由软件基金会。我们有时会例外处理。我们的处理此类事情是有两个目标：保持所有自由软件衍生作品的自由属性以及促进软件共享和重用。

## 免责声明

11、本软件免费许可，因此在适用法律范围内不提供品质保证。除非另有书面声明，本软件著作权人和/或其他作者按“原样”提供本软件，不提供任何形式的显示的或隐式的品质保证，包括但不限于经济价值和适合特定用途的保证。本软件的全部品质和性能风险均由你承担。如果本软件出现缺陷、你将承担所有必要服务、修复和更正的成本。

12、在任何情况下，除非适用的法律要求或者书面协议，任何版权方和/或任何按照上述条款修改或/和分发本软件的第三方都不对你的损失负责，包括任何一般的、特殊的、偶发的或者重大损失（包括但不限于因你或者第三方，或操作不当、或无法与其他软件错误协同造成的数据丢失，数据失真、失效），即使那些持有方或者其他人已被告知此类损失的可能性。

**条款和条件结束**

## 如何将上述条款应用于你的新程序

如果你开发了一个新程序，并且希望它最大限度地被公众所使用，最好的办法就是将其作为自由软件，使得每个人都可以按照本许可证分发和修改。

为此，最安全、最有效的办法是将如下的声明附在每个文件开头，以明确传达免责声明。每个文件应当最少包含一个“版权声明”和一个本许可证的完整声明。

    用一行标明程序的名称和作用。

    版权所有（C） 年份  作者姓名

    本程序是自由软件，你可以根据自由软件基金会发布的GNU通用许可证自由地再分发或者修改。本程序适用第2版或者后续版本（具体随你）。

    我们希望本程序有用，但是不提供任何保证，甚至不保证它的经济价值或者适合特定目的。具体细节参加GNU通过公共许可证。

    你应当随本程序收到了GNU通用公共许可证的副本，如果没有请致信自由软件基金会：51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

同时提供你的电子邮件或者纸质邮件地址。

如果本程序是交互的，让它在交互模式启动前输出如下的简短声明：

    Gnomovision 第69版，版权所有（C）年份 作者姓名

    Gnomovision不提供任何品质保证，输入“show w”查看详情。本软件是自由软件，欢迎你根据许可条件再分发，输入“show c”查看详情。

假设的命令`show w`和`show c`用于显示通用公共许可证相应的内容。当然，你也可以使用`show w`和`show c`之外的其他命，甚至点击鼠标或者菜单项等——任何适合你程序的方式。

如有必要，你还应该得到你的雇主（如果你是一名程序员）或者学校（如果有的话）签署该本程序的放弃版权声明。如下例所示：

    Yoyodyne有限公司声明放弃James Hacker所写的“Gnomovision”（编译通过的程序）的版权权益。

    Ty Coon的签名 1989年4月1日

    副总裁 Ty Coon

本通用公共许可证不允许将你的程序合并到私有程序。如果你的程序是子程序库，而你可以考虑让私有程序链接它，使其更有用。如果你希望这么做，你可以使用GUN宽松通用许可证。


[]{#_bookmark258 .anchor}**APPENDIX C**

THE GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, VERSION 2.1

Copyright c

Version 2.1, February 1999

1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.

\[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts
as the successor of the GNU Library Public License version 2, hence
the version number 2.1.\]

**Preamble**

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom
to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses
are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change Free
Software---to make sure the software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--- typically libraries---of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations
below.

When we speak of Free Software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of Free Software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new Free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there
is no warranty for the Free library. Also, if the library is modified
by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what
they have is not the original version, so that the original author's
reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced
by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any Free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a Free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-Free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a
shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License. It also provides other Free Software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-Free programs. These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it
becomes a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-Free programs must
be allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a Free
library does the same job as widely used non-Free libraries. In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the Free library to Free
Software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-Free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
Free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-Free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library." The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

GNU Lesser General Public License

Terms and Conditions For Copying, Distribution and Modification

0.  This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
    > program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
    > other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the
    > terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this
    > License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you."

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

The "library," below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the
library" means either the library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification.")

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control
compilation and installation of the library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running a program using the library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the library (independent of the use of the library in a tool for
writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the library does and
what the program that uses the library does.

1.  You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the library's
    > complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided
    > that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
    > appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep
    > intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the
    > absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License
    > along with the library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

2.  You may modify your copy or copies of the library or any portion of
    > it, thus forming a work based on the library, and copy and
    > distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
    > above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a.  The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b.  You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
        > stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c.  You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge
        > to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d.  If a facility in the modified library refers to a function or a
        > table of data to be supplied by an application program that
        > uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the
        > facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to
        > ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such
        > function or table, the facility still operates, and performs
        > whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well- defined independent of the application.
Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application- supplied
function or table used by this function must be optional: if the
application does not supply it, the square root function must still
compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the library
with the library (or with a work based on the library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3.  You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
    > License instead of this License to a given copy of the library. To
    > do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this
    > License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public
    > License version 2, instead of to this License. (If a newer version
    > than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
    > appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)
    > Do not make any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that
copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the
library into a program that is not a library.

4.  You may copy and distribute the library (or a portion or derivative
    > of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under
    > the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it
    > with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code,
    > which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
    > above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from
a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the
source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the
source along with the object code.

5.  A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the library,
    > but is designed to work with the library by being compiled or
    > linked with it, is called a "work that uses the library." Such a
    > work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the library, and
    > therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the library" with the library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the library (because it
contains portions of the library), rather than a "work that uses the
library." The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section
6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

When a "work that uses the library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the library, or if the work is itself a library. The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions
(ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is
unre- stricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work.
(Executables containing this object code plus portions of the library
will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the library itself.

6.  As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link
    > a "work that uses the library" with the library to produce a work
    > containing portions of the library, and distribute that work under
    > terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification
    > of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for
    > debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
library is used in it and that the library and its use are covered by
this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one
of these things:

a.  Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    > source code for the library including whatever changes were used
    > in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2
    > above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the library,
    > with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the library,"
    > as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the
    > library and then relink to produce a modified executable
    > containing the modified library. (It is understood that the user
    > who changes the contents of definitions files in the library will
    > not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the
    > modified definitions.)

b.  Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    > library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    > copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    > rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    > will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    > the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    > interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

c.  Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
    > years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection
    > 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this
    > distribution.

d.  If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from
    > a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    > specified materials from the same place.

e.  Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials
    > or that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the library together in an executable that you
distribute.

7.  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
    > library side-by-side in a single library together with other
    > library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute
    > such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution
    > of the work based on the library and of the other library
    > facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these
    > two things:

    a.  Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
        > based on the library, uncombined with any other library
        > facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the
        > Sections above.

    b.  Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that
        > part of it is a work based on the library, and explaining
        > where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same
        > work.

8.  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the
    > library except as expressly provided under this License. Any
    > attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
    > distribute the library is void, and will automatically terminate
    > your rights under this License. However, parties who have received
    > copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
    > licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full
    > compliance.

9.  You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
    > signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify
    > or distribute the library or its derivative works. These actions
    > are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.
    > Therefore, by modifying or distributing the library (or any work
    > based on the library), you indicate your acceptance of this
    > License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
    > distributing or modifying the library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the library (or any work based on the
    > library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
    > original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the
    > library subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose
    > any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights
    > granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance
    > by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
    > infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent
    > issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order,
    > agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this
    > License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
    > License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously
    > your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
    > obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the
    > library at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit
    > royalty-free redistribution of the library by all those who
    > receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only
    > way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
    > entirely from distribution of the library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the Free Software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the library is restricted in
    > certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces,
    > the original copyright holder who places the library under this
    > License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation
    > excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only
    > in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this
    > License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of
    > this License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
    > of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new
    > versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
    > differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version," you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the library into other Free
    > programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with
    > these, write to the author to ask for permission. For software
    > which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the
    > Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
    > Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the
    > Free status of all derivatives of our Free software and of
    > promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

No Warranty

15. Because the library is licensed free of charge, there is no warranty
    > for the library, to the extent permitted by applicable law. Except
    > when otherwise stated in writ- ing the copyright holders and/or
    > other parties provide the library "as is" without warranty of any
    > kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to,
    > the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
    > particular purpose. The en- tire risk as to the quality and
    > performance of the library is with you. should the library prove
    > defective, you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair
    > or correction.

16. In no event unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
    > writing will any copy- right holder, or any other party who may
    > modify and/or redistribute the library as permitted above, be
    > liable to you for damages, including any general, special,
    > incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use or
    > inability to use the library (including but not limited to loss of
    > data or data being rendered inaccurate or losses sustained by you
    > or third parties or a failure of the library to operate with any
    > other software), even if such holder or other party has been
    > advised of the possibility of such damages.

End of Terms and Conditions

**How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries**

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recom- mend making it Free Software
that everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms
of the ordinary General Public License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It
is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most
effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should
have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full
notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.
Copyright (C) year name of author

This library is Free Software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version

2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICU- LAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper
mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or
your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library,
if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
'Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James
Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990 Ty Coon, President of Vice

[]{#_bookmark259 .anchor}**APPENDIX D**

# GNU通用公共许可证

第3版，2007年6月29日

版权所有 (C) 2007年 自由软件基金会 https://fsf.org/。

任何人都可以复制和发布本许可证的完整副本，但不允许修改。

## 译者声明

This is an unofficial translation of the GNU General Public License into Chinese. It was not published by the Free Software Foundation, and does not legally state the distribution terms for software that uses the GNU GPL--only the original English text of the GNU GPL does that. However, we hope that this translation will help Chinese speakers understand the GNU GPL better.

本译文是GNU通用公共许可证的非官方中文翻译，并非自由软件基金会发布，不适合作为使用GNU通用公共许可证发布的软件的法律声明——只有GNU通用公共许可证英文原版才具有法律效力。不过我们希望本翻译能够帮助中文读者更好地理解GNU通用公共许可证。

仅在遵循 https://www.gnu.org/licenses/translations.html 中的条款时，你才可以经过修改地或者不经过修改地发布本译文。

## 引言

GNU通用公共许可证是一份面向软件及其他类型作品的、公共著佐权许可证。

就多数软件而言，许可证被设计用于剥夺你分享和修改软件的自由。相反，GNU通用公共许可证力图保障你分享和修改某程序全部版本的权利——确保自由软件对其用户来说是自由的。我们——自由软件基金会——将GNU通用公共许可证用于我们的大多数软件，并为一些其他作品的作者效仿。你也可以将本许可证用于你的程序。

所谓自由软件，强调自由，而非免费。设计GNU通用公共许可证的目的在于确保你享有分发自由软件的自由（你可以为此服务收费），确保你可以在需要的时候获得cd这些软件的源代码，确保你可以修改这些软件或者在新的自由软件中复用其中某些片段，并且确保你在这方面享有知情权。

为了保护你的权利，我们设置了一些限制以防止其他人否定你的权利或者要求你放弃你的权利。这些限制在你分发或者修改这些软件时会成为你的责任。

例如，你分发这类软件的副本，无论是收费或者免费，你必须授予接收者你拥有的所有权利。你必须保证他们也能收到或者能够获得源代码。并且你也要确保他们也知道他们的权利。

采用GNU通用公共许可证的开发者通过两步保障你的权利：（1）声明软件的版权；（2）通过本许可证授予你合法地复制、分发和修改该软件的权利。

为了保护作者和开发者，GPL明确声明：自由软件并没有品质担保。为用户和作者双方着想，GPL要求修改版必须有修改标记，以免其问题被错误地归到先前版本的作者身上。

某些设备设计成拒绝用户安装、运行修改过的软件，但设备生产商不受此限制。这和我们保护用户享有修改软件的自由的宗旨存在根本性矛盾。这种系统化地滥用模式常常出现于个人用品领域，这恰恰是最不可接受的。因此，我们设计了这版GPL来禁止这类做法的产品。如果此类问题在其他领域大量出现，我们随时在GPL的后续版本中把规定扩展到相应领域，以保护用户的自由。

最后，每个程序都持续受到软件专利的威胁。政府不应该允许专利限制通用计算机软件的开发和应用，在做不到这点时，我们希望避免因专利的应用而使自由软件私有化的危险。就此，GPL保证专利不能使程序非自由化。

下文是关于复制、分发和修改的详细条款和条件。

## 条款和条件

### 0. 定义

“本许可证”指GNU通用公共许可证第3版。

“版权”也指适用于其他类型作品的类似版权的法律，如半导体掩模的。

“本程序”指任何受本许可证保护的任何有版权的作品。每位被授权人称作“你”。“被授权人”和“接收者”可以是个人或组织。

“修改”一个作品指需要版权授权才能复制该作品以及对作品全部或部分的改编行为，不同于制作完全相同的副本。所产生的作品称作上一作品的“修改版”，或“基于”上一作品衍生作品。

“受保护作品”指未修改的程序或其衍生作品。

“传播”作品指那些未经授权就会在适用版权法律下构成直接或间接侵权的任何行为，但在计算机上运行和修改私有副本除外。传播包括复制、分发（无论修改与否）、向公众公开，以及在某些国家的其他行为。

“传递”作品指让他方能够制作或者接收副本的行为。仅仅通过计算机网络与用户交互，但没有传输副本，则不算传递。

显示“适当的法律声明”的交互式用户界面应包括一个方便和醒目的可视化方式显示：（1）适当的版权声明；（2）告知用户没有品质担保（提供了品质担保的情况除外），被授权人可以在本许可证约束下传递该作品，及查看本许可证副本的途径。如果该界面是以命令列表或者选项方式显示，如菜单，在列表项显示上述法律声明，也是符合本要求。

### 1. 源代码

作品的“源代码”指其可修改的首选形式，目标代码指所有其他形式。

“标准接口”指标准化组织定义的官方标准中的接口，或针为某种编程语言设定的为开发者广泛使用的接口。

可执行作品中的“系统库”不是指整个程序，而是包含任何这类内容的部分：（a）以通常形式和主要组件打包到一起却并非后者的一部分，且（b）仅为和主要组件一起使该作品可用或实现某些已有公开实现源代码的接口。“主要组件”在这里指可执行该作品运行依赖的操作系统（如果存在）的必要组件（内核、窗口系统等），或者生成该作品的编译器，或运行所需的目标代码解释器。

目标代码作品的“相应源代码”指所有修改该作品及生成、安装、运行（对可执行作品而言）目标代码所需的所有源代码，或者修改作品的所有源代码，包括控制上述行为的脚本。可是，其中不包括系统库、通用工具、不需要修改就可以直接用于支持上述行为但不是该作品一部分的、通常可得的自由软件。例如，相应的源代码包含与作品源文件相关的接口定义，以及共享库和该作品专门依赖的动态链接子程序的源代码。这里的依赖体现为密切的数据交换或者该子程序和作品其他部分的控制流切换。

相应的源代码不必包含那些用户可以通过源代码其他部分自动生成的内容。

源代码形式作品的相应源代码即该作品本身。

### 2. 基本授权

本许可证的所有授权都是对本程序的版权而言的，并且当所述条件都满足时不可撤销。本许可证明确授权你不受限制地运行本程序的未修改版本。运行受保护作品的输出结果，仅当其内容构成一个受保护作品时，才受本许可证约束。如版权法授权一样，本许可证承认你合理使用权或其他同等权利。

只要你获得的许可仍有效，你就可以制作、运行和传播不是你传递的受保护作品。在你遵守本许可证中关于转发你拥有版权的材料的条款时，你可以向他人传递受保护的作品，以让对方单独为你定制修改，或者向你提供运行这些作品的工具。那些为你制作或运行这些受保护作品的人，必须在你的指引和控制下，仅代表你工作，即禁止他们在双方关系之外制作任何你提供的受版权保护材料的副本。

仅当满足后文所述条件时，其他各种情况下的传递才是被允许的。不允许再授权，而第10条的存在也使再授权变得没有必要。

### 3. 保护用户的合法权益免受反破解法限制

为了履行1996年12月20日通过的WIPO版权条约第11章规定的义务，法律规定了禁止或规避措施的条款，所有受保护作品不应该被视为规避这些法律条款的技术手段的一部分。

如果你传递一个受保护作品，即表明你放弃禁止技术规避措施的法律权利，行使本许可证所授予权利可以实现规避，同时，你也放弃禁止技术规避措施相关的法律赋予你或者第三方限制运行或者修改本作品的权利。

### 4. 传递原始副本

你可以通过任何媒介传递你接收到的本程序的完整源代码副本，但必须做到：为每一个副本明显而恰当地发布版权声明；完整地保留关于本许可及按第7条加入的非许可性条款；完整地保留所有免责声明；给接收者附上一份本许可证的副本。

你可以免费或收任何费用传递，也可以选择提供技术支持或品质担保以收取费用。

### 5. 传递经过修改的源代码

你可以以第4条规定的源代码形式传递基于本程序的作品或修改的内容，但必须满足以下要求：

- a）该作品必须带有明显的修改声明及相应的日期。

- b）该作品必须带有明显的声明，指明其在本许可证及任何符合第7条的附加条款下发布。这个要求修正了第4条关于“完整保留所有声明”的内容。

- c）你必须按照本许可证将该作品整体许可给任何得到副本的人。本许可证与符合第7条的附加条款共同适用于整个作品，以及作品的任何一部分，不管它们是如何组建的。本许可证不允许以其他形式许可本作品，但不会使你已经单独收到的其他授权无效。

- d) 如果该作品有交互式用户界面，则其必须显示适当的法律声明。然而，当该程序有交互式用户界面却不显示适当的法律声明时，你的作品也无需使其显示。

一个受保护作品与其他单独且独立的作品组成一个组合，其中的单独作品既不是受保护作品的自然延伸，也不是为了与受保护作品组成更大程序而与被保护作品存储或者分发介质上，并且这种组合和组合后的版权不会限制单独作品的授权，则这种组合称为“组合体”。

### 6. 以非源代码形式传递

你可以以第4条和第5条所述那样以目标代码形式传递受保护作品，同时在本许证可规范下以如下方式之一传递机器可读的对应源代码：

- a) 通过物理产品（包括物理分发媒介）传递或者嵌入目标代码时，通过常用于软件交换的耐用型物理媒介传递相应的源代码。

- b) 通过物理产品（包括物理分发媒介）时，附随具有至少3年有效期的书面承诺，并且有效期涵盖提供的备件或客户支持，以授予任何目标代码的持有者：（1）获得产品中全部受保护软件的相应源代码的副本，副本通过常用于软件交换的耐用型物理媒介提供，且收费不超过其合理的传递成本；或者（2）通过网络免费获得相应源代码的途径。

- c) 单独传递目标代码的副本时，伴以提供源代码的书面承诺。本选项仅在偶尔并且非商业情况下，同时你收到也是第6条b项所述的目标代码的情况下可用。

- d) 通过在指定地址获取目标代码（无论是否收费）的形式传递目标代码时，对同一地址以同样的方式提供相应源代码同等访问权限，并不得额外收费。你不必要求接收者在复制目标代码的同时复制源代码。如果提供获取目标代码的地址为网络服务器，相应的源代码可以提供在另一个支持相同复制功能的服务器上（由你或者第三方运营），不过你要在目标代码处指出相应源代码的确切路径。不管你用什么源代码服务器，你有义务要确保持续可用以满足这些要求。

- e) 通过点对点传输传递目标代码时，告知其他节点目标代码和源代码在何处，并以第6条d项形式向大众免费提供。

如果目标代码的可分离部分，其源代码作为系统库在相应的源代码之外，则不需要被包括在传送目标代码作品中。

“用户产品”指（1）“消费品”，即个人、家庭或日常用途的个人的有形财产；或者（2）面向家庭设计或销售的物品。在判断一款产品是否消费品时，对于有争议的案例，应尽量扩大覆盖范围。就特定用户接收到特定产品而言，“正常使用”指对此类产品的典型的或一般使用，与该用户的身份，该用户对该产品的实际用法，以及该产品的预期用法无关。无论产品是否实质上具有商业上的，工业上的，及非面向消费者的用法，它都视为消费品，除非以上用法代表了它唯一的重要使用模式。

用户产品的“安装信息”，指基于修改过的源代码来安装运行该产品中的受保护作品的修改版所需的方法、流程、授权秘钥及其他信息。这些信息必须足以保证修改过的目标代码不会仅仅因为被修改过而不能继续工作。

如果你根据本条规定，传递一个目标代码作品到用户产品中或与用户产品一起，或专门用于特定用户产品，并且传送行为成为交易的一部分，使得用户产品永久或在特定期限内暂时转移给接收者（无论交易的特征如何），必须通过安装信息附上根据本条传递的相应来源。但如果你和第三方都没有在用户产品中保留安装修改目标代码的能力时，可以不遵守该要求（例如，作品有已安装在 ROM 中）。

提供安装信息的要求不包括对接受者修改或者安装、或者已经被修改或者安装的用户产品继续提供支持服务、品质担保或者升级。当修改本身对网络运行有重大负面影响，或违反网络通信规则和协议时，可能会被拒绝访问网络。

根据本条规定发布的源代码及安装信息，必须以公共的文档格式（并且以源代码形式实现对公众可用）存在，同时不得对解压、阅读和复制设置任何密码或秘钥。

### 7. 附加条款

“附加许可”用于补充本许可证的条款，以允许一或者多个例外情况。如果附加许可适用于整个程序且在适用的法律范围内有效，就应该视为本许可证的一部分。如果附加许可只适用于程序的某部分，则该部分受此附加许可约束，而其他部分受不适用附加许可之外的条款约束。

当你传递本程序的副本时，你可以选择性从副本中删除任何附加许可。（在某些情况下，当你修改作品时，附加许可可能已经写明要求你删除该附加许可。）对于你传递的作品，如果你拥有或者可以适当地授权，你也可以在作品的材料中添加附加许可。

尽管本许可证还有的其他条款，对于你添加到受保护作品中的材料，你可以对本许可证（如果你获得该材料版权持有人的授权）添加如下补充条款：

- a) 以第15条、第16条之外的方式，拒绝提供品质担保或缩小责任范围。或者

- b) 要求在此材料中或在法律声明中包含特定的合理法律声明或作者信息。或者

- c) 禁止对该原始材料不当描述，或要求用不同与原始版本的方式对该材料修改版本合理标示。或者

- d) 限制公开使用授权人或者该材料作者姓名。或者

- e) 拒绝使用在商标法下使用商号、商标及服务标识。

- f) 任何传递该材料（或其修改版）者，如果对接收者提供契约性责任许诺，需要为授权人或者该材料作者承担赔偿责任，因为任何契约假设责任都造成授权人或者作者承担。

此外的非授权附加条款都被视作第10条所说的“进一步的限制”。如果你接收到的程序或程序的任何部分，包含受本许可约束的声明，却补充了这种进一步的限制条款，你可以删除它们。如果某许可文件包含进一步的限制条款，但允许通过本许可证再授权或传递，你可以添加受该许可文件保护的材料，同时提供其他的再许可或者传递的进一步限制条款。

如果你根据本条规定向受保护作品添加了新的条款，你必须在相关的源文件中加入附加条款的对应的声明，或者指明在哪里可以找到适用的条款。

附加条款，不管是授权的还是非授权的，可以以独立的书面许可出现，也可以声明为例外情况，两种做法都可以实现上述要求。

### 8. 终止

除非在本许可证明确授权下，你不得传播或修改受保护作品。其他任何传播或修改受保护作品的做法都是无效的，你通过本许可证获得的权利（包括第11条第3段中授予的专利权限）也自动终止。

然而，当你不再违反本许可证时，你从特定版权持有人处获得的许可可以：（1）暂时恢复，直到版权持有人明确终止；（2）永久恢复，如果版权持有人没能在60天内以合理的方式指出你的侵权行为。

再者，如果你第一次收到了特定版权持有人关于你违反本许可证（对任意作品）的通知，且在收到通知后30天内改正，那你可以继续享此有许可。

当你享有的权利如本条所述被中止时，根据本许可证从你这里获得许可的第三方的权利不会因此中止。在你的权利恢复之前，你没有资格凭第10条获得同一材料的许可。

### 9. 持有副本接受本许可

你不必为接收或运行本程序而接受本许可。类似地，仅仅因点对点传输接收到副本引发的对受保护作品的辅助性传播，并不要求接受本许可证。但是，除本许可证外没有什么可以授权你传播或修改任何受保护作品。如果你不接受本许可证，这些行为就侵犯了著作权。因此，一旦修改和传播一个受保护作品，就表明你接受了本许可证。

### 10. 对下游接收者的自动授权

每当你传递一个受保护作品，其接收者自动获得来自原始授权人的许可，依照本许可证可以运行、修改和传播此作品。你没有要求第三方遵守本许可证的责任。

“实体交易”指转移一个组织的控制权或全部资产、或拆分或合并组织的交易。如果实体交易导致一个受保护作品的传播，则交易中各收到作品副本方，都有获得前利益相关者享有或可以如前段所述提供的对该作品的任何授权，以及从前利益相关者处获得并拥有相应的源代码的权利，如果前利益相关者享有或可以通过合理的努力获得此源代码。

你不可以对本许可证所授权利的行使施以进一步的限制。例如，你不可以索要许可费或版税，或就行使本许可证所授予的权利征收其他费用；你也不能发起诉讼（包括交互诉讼和反诉），宣称制作、使用、零售、批发、引进本程序或其部分的行为侵犯了任何专利声明。

### 11. 专利

“贡献者”指通过本许可证对本程序或其衍生作品进行许可的版权持有人。贡献者许可的作品称为“贡献者版本”。

贡献者的“必要专利声明”是由贡献者拥有或控制所有专利声明，无论是已经获得还是将要获得的，通过本许可证授权本来侵犯行为，例如制作、使用或销售其贡献者版本，但不包括仅对贡献者版本进一步修改的行为。根据本定义，“控制”包括符合本许可证要求的专利再许可的权利。

每位贡献者皆其就拥有的实际专利权限，授予你一份全球有效的免版费的非独占专利许可，以制作、使用、零售、批发、引进，及运行、修改、传播其贡献者版的内容。

在以下3段中，“专利授权”指通过任何方式明确表达的不行使专利权（如对使用专利的明确许可和不起诉专利侵权的契约）的协议或承诺。对某方“授予”专利权限，指这种不对其强制行使专利权的协议或承诺。

如果你传递的受保护作品时，明知需要某专利授权，而其相应的源代码并不是任何人都能根据本许可从网上或其他地方免费获得，那你必须（1）提供相应的源代码；或者（2）放弃从该程序的专利授权中的权益；或者（3）以某种和本许可相一致的方式将专利许可扩展到下游接收者。“明知需要”指你实际上知道若没有专利授权，你在某国家传递受保护作品的行为，或者接收者在某国家使用受保护作品的行为，会侵犯一项或多项该国认定的专利，而这些专利你有理由相信它们的有效性。

如果根据单一交易或安排，抑或与之相关，你传递某受保护作品，或通过促成其转手以实现传播，并且该作品的接收方被授予专利权限，以使其可以使用、传播、修改或转发该作品的特定副本，则此等专利授权将自动延伸及每一个收到该作品或其衍生作品的接受者。

如果某专利在其涵盖范围内，不包含本许可证专门授予的一项或多项权利，禁止行使它们或以不行使它们为前提，则该专利是“歧视性”的。如果你和软件发布行业的第三方有合作，合作要求你就转发受保护作品的情况向其付费，并授予作品接收方歧视性专利，而且该专利（a）与你转发的副本（或在此基础上制作的副本）有关，或针对包含该受保护作品的产品或联合作品，你不得转发本程序，除非参加此项合作或取得该专利授权早于2007年3月28日。

本许可证的任何部分不应被解释成在排斥或限制任何暗含的许可，或者其他在适用专利法下对抗侵权的措施。

### 12. 不得牺牲他人的自由

即便你面临与本许可证条款冲突的条件（来自于法庭要求、协议或其他），也不能成为你违反本许可证的理由。倘若你不能在传递受保护作品时同时满足本许可证和其他相关文件的要求，那么你就不要传递本程序。例如，你为了遵循某些要求，你必须向传递对象的接收者收取版税，唯一能同时满足它和本许可证要求的做法便是不传递本程序。

### 13. 与GNU Affero通用公共许可证一起使用

尽管本许可证中已存在其他条款，你可以将任何受保护作品与以GNU Affero通用公共许可证保护的作品关联或组合成一个联合作品，并转发。本许可证对其中的受保护作品部分仍然有效，但GNU Affero通用公共许可证第13条的关于网络交互的特别要求适用于整个联合作品。

### 14. 本许可证的修订版

自由软件基金会可能会不定时发布GNU通用公共许可证的修订版或新版。新版将秉承当前版本的精神，但在细节上描述不尽相同，以解决新的问题或事项。

每一版都会有不同的版本号，如果本程序指定其使用的是某个GNU通用公共许可证的版本“或后续版本”，你可以选择遵守该版本或者任何后续版本的条款。如果本程序没有指定许可证的版本，你可以选用自由软件基金会发布的GNU通用公共许可证任何版本。

如果本程序指明代理可以决定使用GNU通用公共许可证哪个版本，则该代理的公开声明的版本为授权你永久使用的版本。

后续版本可能会给予你额外或不同的许可。但是，任何作者或版权持有人的义务，不会因为你选择新后续版本而增加。

### 15. 免责声明

本程序在适用法律范围内不提供品质担保。除非另作书面声明，版权持有人及其他程序提供者“概”不提供任何显式或隐式的品质担保，品质担保所指包括而不仅限于有经济价值和适合特定用途的保证。全部风险，如程序的质量和性能问题，皆由你承担。若程序出现缺陷，你将承担所有必要的修复和更正服务的费用。

### 16. 责任限制

除非适用法律或书面协议要求，任何版权持有人或本程序按本许可证可能存在的第三方修改和再发布者，都不对你的损失负有责任，包括由于使用或者不能使用本程序造成的任何一般的、特殊的、偶发的或重大的损失（包括而不限于数据丢失、数据失真、你或第三方的后续损失、其他程序无法与本程序协同运作），即使有人声称会对此负责。

### 17. 第15条和第16条的解释

如果上述免责声明和责任限制不为地方法律所支持，上诉法庭应采用与之最接近的关于放弃本程序相关民事责任的地方法律，除非本程序附带收费的品质担保或责任许诺。

条款和适用条件结束

## 如何将上述条款应用到你的程序

如果你开发了一个新程序，并且希望它最大限度地被公众所使用，最好的办法就是将其作为自由软件，使得每个人都可以按照本许可证分发和修改。

为此，最安全、最有效的办法是将如下的声明附在每个文件开头，以明确传达免责声明。每个文件应当最少包含一个“版权声明”和一个本许可证的完整声明。

    <用一行标明程序的名称和作用。 >

    版权所有 (C) <年份>  <作者姓名>

    本程序是自由软件，你可以根据自由软件基金会发布的GNU通用许可证自由地再分发或者修改。本程序适用第3版或者后续版本（具体随你）。

    我们希望本程序有用，但是不提供任何保证，甚至不保证它的经济价值或者适合特定目的。具体细节参加GNU通过公共许可证。

    你应当随本程序收到了GNU通用公共许可证的副本，如果没有，请参阅<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>。


同时提供你的电子邮件或者纸质邮件地址。

如果本程序是交互的，使其在交互模式启动前输出如下的简短声明：

    <程序> 版权所有 (C) <年份>  <作者姓名>

    本程序不提供任何品质保证，输入“show w”查看详情。
    本软件是自由软件，欢迎你根据许可条件再分发，输入“show c”查看详情。

假设的命令`show w` 和 `show c` 用于显示通用公共许可证相应的内容。当然，你也可以使用`show w` 和 `show c` 之外的其他命令，对于图形界面程序，你可以使用“关于”对话框。

如果需要，你还应该得到你的雇主（如果你是一名程序员）或者学校（如果有的话）签署该本程序的放弃版权声明。关于如何应用及遵循GNU通用公共授权许可证的详细信息，请查看  https://www.gnu.org/licenses/。

本通用公共许可证不允许将你的程序合并到私有程序。如果你的程序是子程序库，而你可以考虑让私有程序链接它，使其更有用。如果你希望这么做，你可以使用GUN宽松通用许可证，但是首先，请阅读 https://www.gnu.org/licenses/why-not-lgpl.html。

[]{#_bookmark261 .anchor}**APPENDIX E**

THE AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, VERSION 3

Copyright c

Version 3, 19 November 2007

2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.

**Preamble**

The GNU Affero General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works, specifically designed to ensure
cooperation with the community in the case of network server software.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast,
our General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains
free software for all its users.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

Developers that use our General Public Licenses protect your rights
with two steps: (1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer
you this License which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute
and/or modify the software.

A secondary benefit of defending all users' freedom is that
improvements made in alternate versions of the program, if they
receive widespread use, become available for other developers to
incorporate. Many developers of free software are heartened and
encouraged by the resulting cooperation. However, in the case of
software used on network servers, this result may fail to come about.
The GNU General Public License permits making a modified version and
letting the public access it on a server without ever releasing its
source code to the public.

The GNU Affero General Public License is designed specifically to
ensure that, in such cases, the modified source code becomes available
to the community. It requires the operator of a network server to
provide the source code of the modified version running there to the
users of that server. Therefore, public use of a modified version, on
a publicly accessible server, gives the public access to the source
code of the modified version.

An older license, called the Affero General Public License and
published by Affero, was designed to accomplish similar goals. This is
a different license, not a version of the Affero GPL, but Affero has
released a new version of the Affero GPL which permits relicensing
under this license.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

Terms and Conditions

0.  Definitions.

"This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public
License.

"Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds
of works, such as semiconductor masks.

"The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License. Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of
an exact copy. The resulting work is called a "modified version" of
the earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a
computer or modifying a private copy. Propagation includes copying,
distribution (with or without modification), making available to the
public, and in some countries other activities as well.

To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user
through a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not
conveying.

An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to
the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible
feature that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2)
tells the user that there is no warranty for the work (except to the
extent that warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the
work under this License, and how to view a copy of this License. If
the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

1.  Source Code.

The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of
a work.

A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that
is widely used among developers working in that language.

The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that

a.  is included in the normal form of packaging a Major Component, but
    which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only to
    enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a
    Standard Interface for which an implementation is available to the
    public in source code form. A "Major Component", in this context,
    means a major essential component (kernel, window system, and so on)
    of the specific operating system (if any) on which the executable
    work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an object code
    interpreter used to run it.

The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
control those activities. However, it does not include the work's
System Libraries, or general- purpose tools or generally available
free programs which are used unmodified in performing those activities
but which are not part of the work. For example, Corresponding Source
includes interface definition files associated with source files for
the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require,
such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can
regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same
work.

2.  Basic Permissions.

All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met. This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program. The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, given its
content, constitutes a covered work. This License acknowledges your
rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by copyright law.

You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force.
You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having
them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with
facilities for running those works, provided that you comply with the
terms of this License in conveying all material for which you do not
control copyright. Those thus making or running the covered works for
you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your direction and
control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of your
copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below. Sub- licensing is not allowed; section 10
makes it unnecessary.

3.  Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological
measure under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article
11 of the WIPO copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or
similar laws prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such
measures.

When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such
circumvention is effected by exercising rights under this License with
respect to the covered work, and you disclaim any intention to limit
operation or modification of the work as a means of enforcing, against
the work's users, your or third parties' legal rights to forbid
circumvention of technological measures.

4.  Conveying Verbatim Copies.

You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices stating that this License and any
non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply to the code;
keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give all
recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey,
and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

5.  Conveying Modified Source Versions.

You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
produce it from the Program, in the form of source code under the
terms of section 4, provided that you also meet all of these
conditions:

a.  The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it,
    > and giving a relevant date.

b.  The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released
    > under this License and any conditions added under section 7. This
    > requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact
    > all notices".

c.  You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
    > anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will
    > therefore apply, along with any applicable section 7 additional
    > terms, to the whole of the work, and all its parts, regardless of
    > how they are packaged. This License gives no permission to license
    > the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such
    > permission if you have separately received it.

d.  If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
    > Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive
    > interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your
    > work need not make them do so.

A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent
works, which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work,
and which are not combined with it such as to form a larger program,
in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an
"aggregate" if the compilation and its resulting copyright are not
used to limit the access or legal rights of the compilation's users
beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion of a covered work
in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

6.  Conveying Non-Source Forms.

You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of
sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable
Corresponding Source under the terms of this License, in one of these
ways:

a.  Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    > (including a physical distribu- tion medium), accompanied by the
    > Corresponding Source fixed on a durable physical medium
    > customarily used for software interchange.

b.  Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    > (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a
    > written offer, valid for at least three years and valid for as
    > long as you offer spare parts or customer support for that product
    > model, to give anyone who possesses the object code either (1) a
    > copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
    > product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical
    > medium customarily used for software interchange, for a price no
    > more than your reasonable cost of physically performing this
    > conveying of source, or (2) access to copy the Corresponding
    > Source from a network server at no charge.

c.  Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the
    > written offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This
    > alternative is allowed only occasionally and noncommercially, and
    > only if you received the object code with such an offer, in accord
    > with subsection 6b.

d.  Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
    > (gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the
    > Corresponding Source in the same way through the same place at no
    > further charge. You need not require recipients to copy the
    > Corresponding Source along with the object code. If the place to
    > copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding Source
    > may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party)
    > that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
    > clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
    > Corresponding Source. Regardless of what server hosts the
    > Corresponding Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is
    > available for as long as needed to satisfy these requirements.

e.  Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
    > inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source
    > of the work are being offered to the general public at no charge
    > under subsection 6d.

A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded
from the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be
included in conveying the object code work.

A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any
tangible personal property which is normally used for personal,
family, or household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for
incorporation into a dwelling. In determining whether a product is a
consumer product, doubtful cases shall be resolved in favor of
coverage. For a particular product received by a particular user,
"normally used" refers to a typical or common use of that class of
product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way
in which the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected
to use, the product. A product is a consumer product regardless of
whether the product has substantial commercial, industrial or
non-consumer uses, unless such uses represent the only significant
mode of use of the product.

"Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods,
procedures, authorization keys, or other information required to
install and execute modified versions of a covered work in that User
Product from a modified version of its Corresponding Source. The
information must suffice to ensure that the continued functioning of
the modified object code is in no case prevented or interfered with
solely because modification has been made.

If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as
part of a transaction in which the right of possession and use of the
User Product is transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a
fixed term (regardless of how the transaction is characterized), the
Corresponding Source conveyed under this section must be accompanied
by the Installation Information. But this requirement does not apply
if neither you nor any third party retains the ability to install
modified object code on the User Product (for example, the work has
been installed in ROM).

The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or
updates for a work that has been modified or installed by the
recipient, or for the User Product in which it has been modified or
installed. Access to a network may be denied when the modification
itself materially and adversely affects the operation of the network
or violates the rules and protocols for communication across the
network.

Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided,
in accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly
documented (and with an implementation available to the public in
source code form), and must require no special password or key for
unpacking, reading or copying.

7.  Additional Terms.

"Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this
License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.
Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall
be treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent
that they are valid under applicable law. If additional permissions
apply only to part of the Program, that part may be used separately
under those permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by
this License without regard to the additional permissions.

When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option
remove any additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of
it. (Additional permissions may be written to require their own
removal in certain cases when you modify the work.) You may place
additional permissions on material, added by you to a covered work,
for which you have or can give appropriate copyright permission.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you
add to a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders
of that material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

a.  Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the
    > terms of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

b.  Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or
    > author attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal
    > Notices displayed by works containing it; or

c.  Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
    > requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in
    > reasonable ways as different from the original version; or

d.  Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
    > authors of the material; or

e.  Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
    > names, trademarks, or service marks; or

f.  Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material
    > by anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it)
    > with contractual assumptions of liability to the recipient, for
    > any liability that these contractual assumptions directly impose
    > on those licensors and authors.

All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you
received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is
governed by this License along with a term that is a further
restriction, you may remove that term. If a license document contains
a further restriction but permits relicensing or conveying under this
License, you may add to a covered work material governed by the terms
of that license document, provided that the further restriction does
not survive such relicensing or conveying.

If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you
must place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the
additional terms that apply to those files, or a notice indicating
where to find the applicable terms.

Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the
form of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the
above requirements apply either way.

8.  Termination.

You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly
provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or
modify it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
this License (including any patent licenses granted under the third
paragraph of section 11).

However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license
from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally,
unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally
terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder
fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to
60 days after the cessation.

Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that
copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after
your receipt of the notice.

Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under
this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
reinstated, you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same
material under section 10.

9.  Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run
a copy of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work
occurring solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission
to receive a copy likewise does not require acceptance. However,
nothing other than this License grants you permission to propagate or
modify any covered work. These actions infringe copyright if you do
not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or propagating a
covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so.

10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically
receives a license from the original licensors, to run, modify and
propagate that work, subject to this License. You are not responsible
for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered
work results from an entity transaction, each party to that
transaction who receives a copy of the work also receives whatever
licenses to the work the party's predecessor in interest had or could
give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to possession of the
Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in interest, if
the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the
rights granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may
not impose a license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of
rights granted under this License, and you may not initiate litigation
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that
any patent claim is infringed by making, using, selling, offering for
sale, or importing the Program or any portion of it.

11. Patents.

A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this
License of the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The
work thus licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned
or controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or
hereafter acquired, that would be infringed by some manner, permitted
by this License, of making, using, or selling its contributor version,
but do not include claims that would be infringed only as a
consequence of further modification of the contributor version. For
purposes of

this definition, "control" includes the right to grant patent
sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of this
License.

Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free
patent license under the contrib- utor's essential patent claims, to
make, use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and
propagate the contents of its contributor version.

In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent
(such as an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to
sue for patent infringement). To "grant" such a patent license to a
party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to enforce a
patent against the party.

If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license,
and the Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone
to copy, free of charge and under the terms of this License, through a
publicly available network server or other readily accessible means,
then you must either (1) cause the Corresponding Source to be so
available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of the benefit of the
patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a manner
consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have
actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work
in a country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that
country that you have reason to believe are valid.

If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or
arrangement, you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a
covered work, and grant a patent license to some of the parties
receiving the covered work authorizing them to use, propagate, modify
or convey a specific copy of the covered work, then the patent license
you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of the covered
work and works based on it.

A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the
scope of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on
the non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically
granted under this License. You may not convey a covered work if you
are a party to an arrangement with a third party that is in the
business of distributing software, under which you make payment to the
third party based on the extent of your activity of conveying the
work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the parties
who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent
license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by
you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for and in
connection with specific products or compilations that contain the
covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement, or that patent
license was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting
any implied license or other defenses to infringement that may
otherwise be available to you under applicable patent law.

12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a
covered work so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under
this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not convey it at all. For example, if you agree to
terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for further conveying
from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you could
satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely
from conveying the Program.

13. Remote Network Interaction; Use with the GNU General Public License.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, if you modify the
Program, your modified version must prominently offer all users
interacting with it remotely through a computer network (if your
version supports such interaction) an opportunity to receive the
Corresponding Source of your version by providing access to the
Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge, through some
standard or customary means of facilitating copying of software. This
Corresponding Source shall include the Corresponding Source for any
work covered by version 3 of the GNU General Public License that is
incorporated pursuant to the following paragraph.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have
permission to link or combine any covered work with a work licensed
under version 3 of the GNU General Public License into a single
combined work, and to convey the resulting work. The terms of this
License will continue to apply to the part which is the covered work,
but the work with which it is combined will remain governed by version
3 of the GNU General Public License.

14. Revised Versions of this License.

The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the GNU Affero General Public License from time to time. Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU Affero General
Public License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the
option of following the terms and conditions either of that numbered
version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of the
GNU Affero General Public License, you may choose any version ever
published by the Free Software Foundation.

If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions
of the GNU Affero General Public License can be used, that proxy's
public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you
to choose that version for the Program.

Later license versions may give you additional or different
permissions. However, no additional obli- gations are imposed on any
author or copyright holder as a result of your choosing to follow a
later version.

15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLI- CABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE
COPYRIGHT HOLD- ERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY
AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PRO- GRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR
CORRECTION.

16. Limitation of Liability.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CON-
VEYS THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, IN-
CLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARIS- ING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR
LOSSES SUS- TAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM
TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided
above cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates
an absolute waiver of all civil liability in connection with the
Program, unless a warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a
copy of the Program in return for a fee.

End of Terms and Conditions

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these
terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to
attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively state
the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

\<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it
does.\> Copyright (C) \<textyear\> \<name of author\>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify

it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or

(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the

GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public
License along with this program. If not, see
[\<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/\>](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper
mail.

If your software can interact with users remotely through a computer
network, you should also make sure that it provides a way for users to
get its source. For example, if your program is a web application, its
interface could display a "Source" link that leads users to an archive
of the code. There are many ways you could offer source, and different
solutions will be better for different programs; see section 13 for
the specific requirements.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. For more information on this, and how to apply and follow
the GNU AGPL, see
[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/)
