
# Part III Case Studies in GPL Enforcement

# 第2部分 GPL 执行案例研究

PREFACE

前言

This one-day course presents the details of five different GPL
compliance cases handled by FSF's GPL Compliance Laboratory. Each case
offers unique insights into problems that can arise when the terms of
the GPL are not properly followed, and how diplomatic negotiation
between the violator and the copyright holder can yield positive
results for both parties.

这个为期一天的课程详细介绍了五种不同的GPL课程。 合规案例由 FSF 的 GPL 合规实验室处理。每个案例 提供对以下条款可能出现的问题的独特见解 GPL没有得到适当的遵守，外交谈判如何 在侵权者和版权所有者之间可以产生积极的结果 双方的结果。

Attendees should have successfully completely the course, a "Detailed
Study and Analysis of the GPL and LGPL," as the material from that
course forms the building blocks for this material.

与会者应已成功完成课程，“详细 GPL和LGPL的研究和分析“，作为其中的材料 课程构成了该材料的基石。

This course is of most interest to lawyers who have clients or
employers that deal with Free Software on a regular basis. However,
technical managers and executives whose businesses use or distribute
Free Software will also find the course very helpful.

本课程对有客户或 定期与自由软件打交道的雇主。然而 其业务使用或分发的技术经理和高管 自由软件也会发现这门课程非常有帮助。

These course materials are merely a summary of the highlights of the
course presented. Please be aware that during the actual GPL course,
class discussion supplements this printed curriculum. Simply reading
it is not equivalent to attending the course.

这些课程材料只是对 课程介绍。请注意，在实际的 GPL 课程中， 课堂讨论是对这一印刷课程的补充。简单阅读 它不等同于参加课程。

## CHAPTER 20 OVERVIEW OF COMMUNITY ENFORCEMENT

## 第20章 社区执法概述

The GPL is a Free Software license with legal teeth. Unlike licenses
like the X11-style or various BSD licenses, the GPL (and by extension,
the LGPL) is designed to defend as well as grant freedom. We saw in
the last course that the GPL uses copyright law as a mechanism to
grant all the key freedoms essential in Free Software, but also to
ensure that those freedoms propagate throughout the distribution chain
of the software.

GPL 是一个具有法律效力的自由软件许可证。与许可证不同 像 X11 风格或各种 BSD 许可证一样，GPL（以及扩展， LGPL）旨在捍卫和给予自由。我们在 GPL使用版权法作为机制的最后一门课程 授予自由软件中必不可少的所有关键自由，但也授予 确保这些自由在整个分销链中传播 的软件。

### Termination Begins Enforcement

终止开始强制执行

As we have learned, the assurance that Free Software under the GPL
remains Free Software is accomplished through various terms of the
GPL: 3 ensures that binaries are always accompanied with source; 2
ensures that the sources are adequate, complete and usable; 6 and 7
ensure that the license of the software is always the GPL for
everyone, and that no other legal agreements or licenses trump the
GPL. It is 4, however, that ensures that the GPL can be enforced.

正如我们所了解到的，保证GPL下的自由软件 仍然自由软件是通过各种条款完成的 GPL：3 确保二进制文件始终与源代码一起提供;2 确保来源充足、完整和可用;6 和 7 确保软件的许可证始终是 GPL 每个人，并且没有其他法律协议或许可证胜过 GPL。然而，正是 4 确保了 GPL 的执行。

Thus, 4 is where we begin our discussion of GPL enforcement. This
clause is where the legal teeth of the license are rooted. As a
copyright license, the GPL governs only the activities governed by
copyright law

因此，4 是我们开始讨论 GPL 执行的地方。这 条款是许可证的法律牙齿扎根的地方。作为一个 版权许可，GPL 仅管辖受 版权法

--- copying, modifying and redistributing computer software. Unlike
most copyright licenses, the GPL gives wide grants of permission for
engaging with these activities. Such permissions continue, and all
parties may exercise them until such time as one party violates the
terms of the GPL. At the moment of such a violation (i.e., the
engaging of copying, modifying or redistributing in ways not permitted
by the GPL) 4 is invoked. While other parties may continue to operate
under the GPL, the violating party loses their rights.

---复制、修改和重新分发计算机软件。与 大多数版权许可证，GPL给予广泛的许可 参与这些活动。此类权限将继续，并且所有 当事人可以行使这些权利，直到一方违反 GPL 的条款。在发生此类违规行为时（即 以不允许的方式进行复制、修改或重新分发 通过 GPL） 4 被调用。而其他各方可能继续运营 根据 GPL，违规方将失去其权利。

Specifically, 4 terminates the violators' rights to continue engaging
in the permissions that are otherwise granted by the GPL. Effectively,
their rights revert to the copyright defaults --- no permission is
granted to copy, modify, nor redistribute the work. Meanwhile, 5
points out that if the violator has no rights under the GPL, they are
prohibited by copyright law from engaging in the activities of
copying, modifying and distributing. They have lost these rights
because they have violated the GPL, and no other license gives them
permission to engage in these activities governed by copyright law.

具体来说，4终止了违规者继续参与的权利 在 GPL 以其他方式授予的权限中。有效 他们的权利恢复为版权默认值---没有权限 授予复制、修改或重新分发作品的权限。同时，5 指出，如果违反者在GPL下没有权利，他们是 版权法禁止从事以下活动 复制、修改和分发。他们失去了这些权利 因为他们违反了GPL，并且没有其他许可证给他们 允许从事受版权法管辖的这些活动。

### Ongoing Violations

持续的违规行为

In conjunction with 4's termination of violators' rights, there is one
final industry fact added to the mix: rarely does one engage in a
single, solitary act of copying, distributing or modifying software.
Almost always, a violator will have legitimately acquired a copy of a
GPL'd program, either making modifications or not,

结合4的终止侵权者权利，有一个 最后的行业事实补充：很少有人参与 复制、分发或修改软件的单一、单独行为。 几乎总是，违规者会合法地获得一份副本 GPL 程序，无论是否进行修改，

and then begun distributing that work. For example, the violator may
have put the software in boxes and sold them at stores. Or perhaps the
software was put up for download on the Internet. Regardless of the
delivery mechanism, violators almost always are engaged in *ongoing*
violation of the GPL.

然后开始分发该作品。例如，违规者可能 已将软件放在盒子中并在商店出售。或者也许 软件在互联网上可供下载。无论 交付机制，违反者几乎总是在持续违反GPL。

In fact, when we discover a GPL violation that occurred only once ---
for example, a user group who distributed copies of a GNU/Linux system
without source at one meeting --- we rarely pursue it with a high
degree of tenacity. In our minds, such a violation is an educational
problem, and unless the user group becomes a repeat offender (as it
turns out, they never do), we simply forward along a FAQ entry that
best explains how user groups can most easily comply with the GPL, and
send them on their merry way.

事实上，当我们发现只发生过一次 GPL 违规时--- 例如，分发 GNU/Linux 系统副本的用户组 在一次会议上没有来源---我们很少以高 坚韧程度。在我们看来，这种侵犯是一种教育 问题，除非用户组成为累犯者（因为它 事实证明，他们从不这样做），我们只是沿着常见问题解答条目转发 最好地解释用户组如何最容易地遵守 GPL，以及 送他们快乐的路。

It is only the cases of *ongoing* GPL violation that warrant our
active attention. We vehemently pursue those cases where dozens,
hundreds or thousands of customers are receiving software that is out
of compliance, and where the company continually offers for sale (or
distributes gratis as a demo) software distributions that include
GPL'd components out of compliance. Our goal is to maximize the impact
of enforcement and educate industries who are making such a mistake on
a large scale.

只有持续违反 GPL 的情况才值得我们 积极关注。我们强烈追查那些案件，其中数十， 成百上千的客户正在接收已淘汰的软件 合规性，以及公司持续提供销售（或 免费分发作为演示）软件分发，包括 GPL 组件不合规。我们的目标是最大限度地发挥影响力 执法和教育犯了这种错误的行业规模大。

In addition, such ongoing violation shows that a particular company is
committed to a GPL'd product line. We are thrilled to learn that
someone is benefiting from Free Software, and we understand that
sometimes they become confused about the rules of the road. Rather
than merely giving us a postmortem to perform on a past mistake, an
ongoing violation gives us an active opportunity to educate a new
contributor to the GPL'd commons about proper procedures to contribute
to the community.

此外，这种持续的违规行为表明，特定公司是 致力于GPL产品线。我们很高兴得知 有人从自由软件中受益，我们理解这一点 有时他们对道路规则感到困惑。而 不仅仅是给我们一个事后分析来执行过去的错误，一个 持续的违规行为为我们提供了一个积极的机会来教育新的 GPL 共享资源的贡献者关于贡献的正确程序到社区。

Our central goal is not, in fact, to merely clear up a particular
violation. In fact, over time, we hope that our compliance lab will be
out of business. We seek to educate the businesses that engage in
commerce related to GPL'd software to obey the rules of the road and
allow them to operate freely under them. Just as a traffic officer
would not revel in reminding people which side of the road to drive
on, so we do not revel in violations. By contrast, we revel in the
successes of educating an ongoing violator about the GPL so that GPL
compliance becomes a second-nature matter, allowing that company to
join the GPL ecosystem as a contributor.

事实上，我们的中心目标不仅仅是澄清一个特定的问题。 违反。事实上，随着时间的推移，我们希望我们的合规实验室将是 停业。我们寻求教育从事以下业务的企业 与GPL软件相关的商业，以遵守道路规则和 允许他们在他们之下自由运作。就像交通官员一样 不会陶醉于提醒人们在马路的哪一边开车 上，所以我们不陶醉于违规行为。相比之下，我们陶醉在 成功教育持续违反 GPL 的人，以便 GPL 合规成为第二天性问题，允许该公司 作为贡献者加入 GPL 生态系统。

### How are Violations Discovered?

如何发现违规行为？

Our enforcement of the GPL is not a fund-raising effort; in fact,
FSF's GPL Compliance Lab runs at a loss (in other words, it is
subsided by our donors). Our violation reports come from volunteers,
who have encountered, in their business or personal life, a device or
software product that appears to contain GPL'd software. These reports
are almost always sent via email to
*\<*<license-violation@fsf.org>*\>*.

我们对 GPL 的执行不是筹款工作;事实上 FSF 的 GPL 合规性实验室亏本运行（换句话说，它是 由我们的捐助者补贴）。我们的违规报告来自志愿者， 在业务或个人生活中遇到设备或 似乎包含 GPL 软件的软件产品。这些报告 几乎总是通过电子邮件发送到 <license-violation@fsf.org>。

Our first order of business, upon receiving such a report, is to seek
independent confirmation. When possible, we get a copy of the software
product. For example, if it is an offering that is downloadable from a
Web site, we download it and investigate ourselves. When it is not
possible for us to actually get a copy of the software, we ask the
reporter to go through the same process we would use in examining the
software.

在收到这样的报告后，我们的首要任务是寻求 独立确认。如果可能，我们会获得软件的副本 产品。例如，如果它是可从 网站，我们下载它并自己调查。当它不是 我们可能实际获得该软件的副本，我们要求 报告者经历我们在检查 软件。

By rough estimation, about 95% of violations at this stage can be
confirmed by simple commands. Almost all violators have merely made an
error and have no nefarious intentions. They have made no attempt to
remove our copyright notices from the software. Thus, given the
third-party binary, tpb, usually, a simple command (on a GNU/Linux
system) such as the following will find a Free Software copyright
notice and GPL reference:

粗略估计，现阶段大约95%的违规行为可以 通过简单的命令确认。几乎所有违规者都只是做出了一个 错误，没有恶意。他们没有试图 从软件中删除我们的版权声明。因此，鉴于 第三方二进制文件，tpb，通常是一个简单的命令（在GNU/Linux上） 系统）如以下将找到自由软件版权 通知和 GPL 参考：

strings tpb \| grep Copyright

In other words, it is usually more than trivial to confirm that GPL'd
software is included.

换句话说，确认 GPL 通常不是微不足道的 包括软件。

Once we have confirmed that a violation has indeed occurred, we must
then determine whose copyright has been violated. Contrary to popular
belief, FSF does not have the power to enforce the GPL in all cases.
Since the GPL operates under copyright law, the powers of enforcement
--- to seek redress once 4 has been invoked --- lie with the copyright
holder of the software. FSF is one of the largest copyright holders in
the world of GPL'd software, but we are by no means the only one.
Thus, we sometimes discover that while GPL'd code is present in the
software, there is no software copyrighted by FSF present.

一旦我们确认确实发生了违规行为，我们必须 然后确定谁的版权被侵犯了。与流行相反 相信，FSF 无权在所有情况下执行 GPL。 由于GPL在版权法下运作，因此执行权 ---在援引4后寻求补救---与版权有关 软件持有人。FSF是最大的版权所有者之一 GPL软件的世界，但我们绝不是唯一的。 因此，我们有时会发现，虽然 GPL 代码存在于 软件，目前没有受 FSF 版权保护的软件。

In cases where FSF does not hold copyright interest in the software,
but we have confirmed a violation, we contact the copyright holders of
the software, and encourage them to enforce the GPL. We offer our good
offices to help negotiate compliance on their behalf, and many times,
we help as a third party to settle

如果 FSF 对软件不拥有版权权益， 但我们已经确认违规，我们联系了版权所有者 该软件，并鼓励他们执行GPL。我们提供我们的好 办公室代表他们帮助谈判合规性，并且很多时候， 我们作为第三方帮助解决

such GPL violations. However, what we will describe primarily in this
course is FSF's first-hand experience enforcing its own copyrights and
the GPL.

此类违反 GPL 的行为。但是，我们将在此主要描述的内容 课程是 FSF 执行自己的版权和GPL的第一手经验。

### First Contact

第一次接触

The Free Software community is built on a structure of voluntary
cooperation and mutual help. Our community has learned that
cooperation works best when you assume the best of others, and only
change policy, procedures and attitudes when some specific event or
occurrence indicates that a change is necessary. We treat the process
of GPL enforcement in the same way. Our goal is to encourage violators
to join the cooperative community of software sharing, so we want to
open our hand in friendship.

自由软件社区建立在自愿的结构之上 合作互助。我们的社区已经了解到 当你假设别人最好的时，合作效果最好，而且只有 在某些特定事件或 发生表示需要更改。我们对待过程 以同样的方式执行 GPL。我们的目标是鼓励违规者 加入软件共享的合作社区，所以我们想 在友谊中张开我们的手。

Therefore, once we have confirmed a violation, our first assumption is
that the violation is an oversight or otherwise a mistake due to
confusion about the terms of the license. We reach out to the violator
and ask them to work with us in a collaborative way to bring the
product into compliance. We have received the gamut of possible
reactions to such requests, and in this course, we examine four
specific examples of such compliance work.

因此，一旦我们确认了违规行为，我们的第一个假设是 违规行为是疏忽或其他错误，原因是 对许可条款的混淆。我们联系违规者 并要求他们以协作的方式与我们合作，以带来 产品合规。我们已经收到了可能的所有范围 对此类请求的反应，在本课程中，我们将研究四个 此类合规工作的具体示例。

