
## CHAPTER 22 BORTEZ: MODIFIED GCC SDK

## 第22章 Bortez:修改版的GCC SDK

In our first case study, we will consider Bortez, a company that
produces software and hardware toolkits to assist OEM vendors, makers
of consumer electronic devices.

在第一个案例研究中，我们把目光投到Bortez，这是一家生产软件和硬件工具包用来服务于OEM供应商和消费电子设备制造商的公司。

### Facts

### 事情经过

One of Bortez's key products is a Software Development Kit ("SDK")
designed to assist developers building software for a specific class
of consumer electronics devices.

Bortez的主打产品是一款软件开发工具包(“SDK”)，用途是帮助开发人员为特定类型的消费电子设备进行软件架构。

FSF received a report that the SDK may be based on the GNU Compiler
Collection (which is an FSF- copyrighted collection of tools for
software development in C, C++ and other popular languages). FSF
investigated the claim, but was unable to confirm the violation. The
violation reporter was unresponsive to follow-up requests for more
information.

FSF收到的一份举报，称SDK似乎是基于GNU编译器套件（GNU Compiler Collection，这是FSF拥有版权的C、C++和其他流行语言软件开发工具箱）。FSF就这个反映进行了调查，但无法证实这一违规行为。举报人没有对后续提供更多信息的请求做出回应。

Since FSF was unable to confirm the violation, we did not pursue it
any further. Bogus reports do happen, and we do not want to burden
companies with specious GPL violation complaints. FSF shelved the
matter until more evidence was discovered.

由于FSF无法证实这一违规行为，我们没有做进一步追究。鉴于可能存在不实举报，我们不愿让公司背负莫须有的GPL违规投诉。FSF将此事搁置，直到发现更多证据。

FSF was later able to confirm the violation when two additional
reports surfaced from other violation reporters, both of whom had used
the SDK professionally and noticed clear similarities to FSF's GNU
GCC. FSF's Compliance Engineer asked the reporters to run standard
tests to confirm the violation, and it was confirmed that Bortez's SDK
was indeed a modified version of GCC. Bortez had ported to Windows and
added a number of features, including support for a specific consumer
device chipset and additional features to aid in the linking process
("LP") for those specific devices. FSF explained the rights that the
GPL afforded these customers and pointed out, for example, that Bortez
only needed to provide source to those in possession of the binaries,
and that the users may need to request that source (if 3(b) was
exercised). The violators confirmed that such requests were not
answered.

一段时间以后，当来自其他举报人的另外两份报告浮出水面时，FSF终于对这一违规行为予以确认。这两人都曾专业地使用过SDK，并注意到与FSF的GNU GCC有明显的相似之处。FSF的合规工程师要求报告人通过运行标准测试来确认违规，并证实Bortez的SDK确实是GCC的修改版本。Bortez已经将其移植到Windows，并添加了许多功能，包括对特定消费设备芯片组的支持，并在这些设备的连接过程(“LP”)中提供一些额外支持功能。FSF对GPL赋予客户的权利做出说明，例如，Bortez只可以向那些拥有二进制文件的人提供源代码，并且用户只能对该源代码提出请求(在遵循3(b)的情况下)。违规者证实，这些请求没有得到回应。

FSF brought the matter to the attention of Bortez, who immediately
escalated the matter to their attorneys. After a long negotiation,
Bortez acknowledged that their SDK was indeed a modified version of
GCC. Bortez released most of the source, but some disagreement
occurred over whether LP was also derivative of GCC. After repeated
FSF inquiries, Bortez reaudited the source to discover that FSF's
analysis was correct. Bortez determined that LP included a number of
source files copied from the GCC code-base. Once the full software
release was made available, FSF asked the violation reporters if it
addressed the problem. Reports came back that the source did not
properly build. FSF asked Bortez to provide better build instructions
with the software, and such build instructions were incorporated into
the next software

release.

FSF向Bortez发出警告函，后者立即将此事通知他们的律师。经过长时间的谈判，Bortez承认他们的SDK确实是GCC的修改版本。Bortez公布了大部分来源，但在LP是否也属于GCC的衍生产品的问题上出现了一些分歧。经过FSF的反复质询，Bortez重新对出处进行溯源，发现FSF的分析是正确的。Bortez确定LP包含了许多从GCC代码库复制的源文件。当完整版软件发行后，FSF询问举报人该问题是否得到解决。回信说，该来源并没有被正确构建。FSF要求Bortez为软件做出更适当的构建说明，并将其合并到下一个软件版本中。

At FSF's request as well, Bortez informed customers who had previously
purchased the product that the source was now available by announcing
the availability on its Web site and via a customer newsletter.

在FSF的要求下，Bortez通过其网站以及客户通讯录发布消息，通知以前购买过该产品的客户，已经可以正常使用该来源。

Bortez did have some concerns regarding patents. They wished to
include a statement with the software release that made sure they were
not granting any patent permission other than what was absolutely
required by the GPL. They understood that their patent assertions
could not trump any rights granted by the GPL. The following language
was negotiated into the release:

Bortez对专利问题有一些顾虑。他们希望在软件发行时包含一份声明，以确保他们没有授予除GPL基础条款以外的任何专利许可。他们清楚，自己的专利主张无法凌驾于GPL授予的权利之上。以下内容是通过谈判达成的结果：

Subject to the qualifications stated below, Bortez, on behalf of
itself and its Subsidiaries, agrees not to assert the Claims against
you for your making, use, offer for sale, sale, or importation of the
Bortez's GNU Utilities or derivative works of the Bortez's GNU
Utilities ("Derivatives"), but only to the extent that any such
Derivatives are licensed by you under the terms of the GNU General
Public License. The Claims are the claims of patents that Bortez or
its Subsidiaries have standing to enforce that are directly infringed
by the making, use, or sale of an Bortez Distributed GNU Utilities in
the form it was distributed by Bortez and that do not include any
limitation that reads on hardware; the Claims do not include any
additional patent claims held by Bortez that cover any modifications
of, derivative works based on or combinations with the Bortez's GNU
Utilities, even if such a claim is disclosed in the same patent as a
Claim. Subsidiaries are entities that are wholly owned by Bortez.

根据下述的条款，Bortez代表自身及其子公司，同意不对他人制作、使用、出售、销售或进口Bortez GNU工具组或Bortez GNU工具组的派生产品(“衍生品”)的行为主张权利，但仅限于在GNU通用公共许可证的条款许可下的任何此类衍生品。这是Bortez及其子公司有权强制执行的专利声明，一旦出现利用Bortez发行的版本制作、使用或销售Bortez分布式GNU实用程序的行为则属于直接侵权，并且不包括任何对硬件的限制；权利要求不包括由Bortez持有的那部分额外的专利要求，这涵盖了任何基于Bortez GNU工具组的修改、衍生或组合产品，即使此类权利要求已经在相关专利中予以披露。所谓子公司，是指Bortez全资控股的实体。

This statement does not negate, limit or restrict any rights you
already have under the GNU General Public License version 2.

本声明并不否认、限制或禁止您在GNU通用公共许可证第2版框架下已经拥有的任何权利。

This quelled Bortez's concerns about other patent licensing they
sought to do outside of the GPL'd software, and satisfied FSF's
concerns that Bortez give proper permissions to exercise teachings of
patents that were exercised in their GPL'd software release.

至此Bortez免除了在GPL版软件之外出现其他专利许可的担忧。为了让FSF放心，Bortez还给予了适当的许可，以行使在GPL版软件中行使的教学的权利。

Finally, a GPL Compliance Officer inside Bortez was appointed to take
responsibility for all matters of GPL compliance inside the company.
Bortez is responsible for informing FSF if the position is given to
someone else inside the company, and making sure that FSF has direct
contact with Bortez's Compliance Officer.

最后，Bortez任命了一名GPL合规官，负责公司内所有GPL合规事宜。如果该职位出现人员调整，Bortez负责通知FSF，并确保FSF与Bortez的合规官保持直接对话。

### Lessons

### 经验教训

This case introduces a number of concepts regarding GPL enforcement.

本案例涉及了一些关于GPL实施的概念。

1.  **Enforcement should not begin until the evidence is confirmed.**
    > Most companies that distribute GPL'd software do so in compliance,
    > and at times, violation reports are mistaken. Even with extensive
    > efforts in GPL education, many users do not fully understand their
    > rights and the obligations that companies have. By working through
    > the investigation with reporters, the violation can be properly
    > confirmed, and **the user of the software can be educated about
    > what to expect with GPL'd software**. When users and customers of
    > GPL'd products know their rights, what to expect, and how to
    > properly exercise their rights (particularly under 3(b)), it
    > reduces the chances for user frustration and inappropriate
    > community outcry about an alleged GPL violation.

1.  **除非证据确凿，否则不应执行。**
    > 大多数GPL软件的发行公司都是遵守规定的，违规举报有时是错误的。即使在GPL宣贯方面做了大量的努力，许多用户也不完全理解他们企业的权利和义务。通过与报告人一起联合调查，可以正确地确认违规行为，并且**可以引导用户如何使用GPL软件**。当GPL产品的用户和客户知道他们的权利、期望，并了解如何正确行使他们的权利（尤其是在3(b)框架下）时，这可以减少用户的不满和社区中抗议违反GPL侵权的机会。

2.  **GPL compliance requires friendly negotiation and cooperation.**
    > Often, attorneys and man- agers are legitimately surprised to find
    > out GPL'd software is included in their company's products.
    > Engineers sometimes include GPL'd software without understanding
    > the requirements. This does not excuse companies from their
    > obligations under the license, but it does mean that care and
    > patience are essential for reaching GPL compliance. We want
    > companies to understand that participating and benefiting from a
    > collaborative Free Software community is not a burden, so we
    > strive to make the process of coming into compliance as smooth as
    > possible.

2.  **GPL的合规需要友好协商和合作。**
    > 通常情况下，法务人员和管理层在发现公司产品中包含GPL软件时，理所当然地会感到惊讶。工程师有时会在不了解需求的情况下使用GPL软件。而这并不能作为免除企业在许可证框架下相关义务的借口，但这也确实意味着实现GPL合规必须具备严谨和耐心。我们希望企业能够理解，参与并受益于一个自由软件社区的协作并非会成为负担，因此我们努力促使合规过程尽量顺利。

3.  **Confirming compliance is a community effort.** The whole point of
    > making sure that software distributors respect the terms of the
    > GPL is to allow a thriving software sharing community to benefit
    > and improve the work. FSF is not the expert on how a compiler for
    > consumer electronic devices should work. We therefore inform the
    > community who originally brought the violation to our attention
    > and ask them to assist in evaluation and confirmation of the
    > product's compliance. Of course, FSF coordinates and oversees the
    > process, but we do not want compliance for compliance's sake;
    > rather, we wish to foster a cooperating community of development
    > around the Free Software in question, and encourage the
    > once-violator to begin participating in that community.

3.  **3.合规确认是社区整体共同努力的结果。**
    > 确保软件发行者尊重GPL条款的全部意义在于允许一个蓬勃发展的软件共享社区从中受益并完善。FSF对消费类电子设备编译器并不擅长。因此，我们通知了最初报告违规问题的社区，并请他们协助评估和确认产品的合规性。当然，FSF对这个过程进行了协调和监督，但我们并不希望大家为了合规而合规；相反，我们更愿意围绕所讨论的自由软件来建立一个合作开发的社区，并鼓励曾经的违反者也参与到这个社区中来。

4.  **Informing the harmed community is part of compliance.** FSF asks
    > violators to make some attempt --- such as via newsletters and the
    > company's Web site --- to inform those who already have the
    > products as to their rights under the GPL. One of the key thrusts
    > of the GPL's 1 and 3 is to *make sure the user knows she has these
    > rights*. If a product was received out of compliance by a
    > customer, she may never actually discover that she has such
    > rights. Informing customers, in a way that is not burdensome but
    > has a high probability of successfully reaching those who would
    > seek to exercise their freedoms, is essential to properly remedy
    > the mistake.

4.  **通知受害社区也是合规的工作之一。**
    > FSF要求违规者做出一些尝试——比如通过新闻媒体和公司网站——把GPL权益告诉那些已经成为产品用户的人们。GPL第1条和第3条的重点之一便是确保用户了解自己拥有这些权利。如果客户收到的产品不符合规范，他可能永远不会清晰的知道自己享有这样的权利。要正确地纠正错误，必须采用一种不折腾、又最可能成功地联系到的方式通知那些想要行使自由权利的客户。

5.  **Lines between various copyright, patent, and other legal
    > mechanisms must be precisely de- fined and considered.** The most
    > difficult negotiation point of the Bortez case was drafting
    > language that simultaneously protected Bortez's patent rights
    > outside of the GPL'd source, but was consistent with the implicit
    > patent grant in the GPL. As we discussed in the first course of
    > this series, there is indeed an implicit patent grant with the
    > GPL, thanks to 6 and 7. However, many companies become nervous and
    > wish to make the grant explicit to assure themselves that the
    > grant is sufficiently narrow for their needs. We understand that
    > there is no reasonable way to determine what patent claims read on
    > a company's GPL holdings and which do not, so we do not object to
    > general language that explicitly narrows the patent grant to only
    > those patents that were, in fact, exercised by the GPL'd software
    > as released by the company.

5.  **必须精确地定义和考虑各种版权、专利和其他法律机制之间的界限。**
    > Bortez案最困难的谈判环节是起草文本，需要保护Bortez在GPL来源之外的专利权，并兼顾GPL隐性专利授权的一致性。正如我们在本系列的第一节课中所讨论的，依照第6条和第7条规定，GPL确实存在隐性专利授权。然而，许多企业开始关切，希望对补偿加以明确，以确保范围足以满足他们的需要。我们知道并没有科学的方法来确定哪些专利声明是或者不是基于企业GPL所有权，因此我们不反对将专利授予范围明确缩小到那些实际上由企业发布的GPL软件行使的专利上。

