
## CHAPTER 23 BRACKEN: A MINOR VIOLATION IN A GNU/LINUX DISTRIBUTION

## 第23章 BRACKEN：GNU/LINUX发行版中的一次小违规

In this case study, we consider a minor violation made by a company
whose knowledge of the Free Software community and its functions is
deep.

在这个案例的研究过程中，我们来讨论一个轻微的违规行为，该企业对自由软件社区及其功能有着很透彻的了解。

### The Facts

### 23.1 事情经过

Bracken produces a GNU/Linux operating system product that is sold
primarily to OEM vendors to be placed in appliance devices used for a
single purpose, such as an Internet-browsing-only device. The product
is almost 100% Free Software, mostly licensed under the GPL and
related Free Software licenses.

Bracken研发了一款GNU/Linux操作系统产品，主要客户是OEM供应商，可应用于单一用途的电器设备中，例如仅用于互联网浏览的设备。该产品几乎100%使用了自由软件，大部分是在GPL和相关的自由软件许可证下授权的。

FSF found out about this violation through a report first posted on a
Slashdot[^1^](#_bookmark246) comment, and then it was brought to our
attention again by another Free Software copyright holder who had
discovered the same violation.

FSF通过Slashdot[^1^](#_bookmark246) 上的一篇评论报告发现了这一违规行为，之后另一名自由软件版权所有者发现了同样的违规行为，这再次引起了我们的注意。

Bracken's GNU/Linux product is delivered directly from their Web site.
This allowed FSF engineers to directly download and confirm the
violation quickly. Two primary problems were discovered with the
online distribution:

Bracken的GNU/Linux产品直接通过他们的网站发行。因此FSF工程师可以直接下载并快速确认违规。我们发现了在线分发的两个主要问题:

No source code nor offer for source code was provided for a number of
components for the distributed GNU/Linux system; only binaries were
available

- 没有为分布式GNU/Linux系统的诸多组件提供源代码或源代码报价；只有二进制文件可用；

An End User License Agreement ("EULA") was included that contradicted
the permissions granted by the GPL

- 包含了与GPL授予的权限相矛盾的最终用户许可协议(“EULA”) ；

FSF contacted Bracken and gave them the details of the violation.
Bracken immediately ceased distri- bution of the product temporarily
and set forth a plan to bring themselves back into compliance. This
plan included the following steps:

FSF与Bracken取得联系，告知他们违规的细节。Bracken立即叫停了该产品的分销，并制定了一项计划，使自己重新合规。该计划包括以下步骤:

Bracken attorneys would rewrite the EULA to comply with the GPL and
would vet the new EULA through FSF before use

- Bracken律师将重写符合GPL的EULA，并在使用前交由FSF对新EULA进行审查。

Bracken engineers would provide source side-by-side with the binaries
for the GNU/Linux distribution on the site (and on CD's, if ever they
distributed that way)

- Bracken工程师将在线为GNU/Linux发行版提供源代码和二进制文件（如以CD方式发行，同样也会提供）

Bracken attorneys would run an internal seminar for its engineers
regarding proper GPL compliance to help ensure that such oversights
regarding source releases would not occur in the future

- Bracken的律师将为其工程师举办一场关于正确遵循GPL的内部研讨会，以帮助确保此类关于源代码发布的疏忽在未来不会再发生。

^1^[]{#_bookmark246 .anchor}Slashdot is a popular news and discussion
site for technical readers.

^1^[]{#_bookmark246 .anchor}Slashdot是一个受技术读者欢迎的新闻和讨论平台。

Bracken would resume distribution of the product only after FSF
formally restored Bracken's distri- bution rights

- 只有在FSF正式恢复Bracken的分销权后，Bracken才可以恢复该产品的分销。

This case was completed in about a month. FSF approved the new EULA
text. The key portion in the EULA relating to the GPL read as follows:

这个案件大约一个月就办理完毕了。FSF批准了新的EULA文本。EULA中与GPL相关的关键部分如下:

Many of the Software Programs included in Bracken Software are
distributed under the terms of agreements with Third Parties ("Third
Party Agreements") which may expand or limit the Licensee's rights to
use certain Software Programs as set forth in \[this EULA\]. Certain
Software Programs may be licensed (or sublicensed) to Licensee under
the GNU General Public License and other similar license agreements
listed in part in this section which, among other rights, permit the
Licensee to copy, modify and redistribute certain Software Programs,
or portions thereof, and have access to the source code of certain
Software Programs, or portions thereof. In addition, certain Software
Programs, or portions thereof, may be licensed (or sublicensed) to
Licensee under terms stricter than those set forth in \[this EULA\].
The Licensee must review the electronic documentation that accompanies
certain Software Programs, or portions thereof, for the applicable
Third Party Agreements. To the extent any Third Party Agreements
require that Bracken provide rights to use, copy or modify a Software
Program that are broader than the rights granted to the Licensee in
\[this EULA\], then such rights shall take precedence over the rights
and restrictions granted in this Agreement solely for such Software
Programs.

Bracken产品中的许多软件程序都是根据与第三方签署的协议条款(“第三方协议”)来分发的，这些协议条款可能在被许可方使用[本EULA]中规定的某些软件程序的权利时扩展或限制。一些软件程序可以根据GNU通用公共许可证和本章列出的其他相似许可协议授权(或二次授权)给被许可方，在其他权利中，允许被许可方复制、修改和重新发布某些软件或其中一部分程序，并有权访问某些软件或其部分程序的源代码。另外，某些软件或其部分程序可按照比[本EULA]更严格的条款授权(或二次授权)给被许可方。被许可方必须审阅这些软件或其部分程序的电子文档附件，以了解适用的第三方协议。如果任何第三方协议要求Bracken提供比[本EULA]向被许可方授予的更广泛的使用、复制或修改软件程序的权利，则该权利的级别应优先于本协议中授予该软件程序的权利和限制的等级。

FSF restored Bracken's distribution rights shortly after the work was
completed as described.

在工作完成后不久，FSF恢复了Bracken的分销权。

### 23.2 Lessons Learned

### 23.2 经验教训

This case was probably the most quickly and easily resolved of all GPL
violations in the history of FSF's Compliance Lab. The ease with which
the problem was resolved shows a number of cultural factors that play
a role in GPL compliance.

这个案例可能是FSF合规实验室历史上最快速、最容易解决的GPL违规事件。相关问题的轻松解决表明了许多文化因素在GPL合规中发挥了作用。

1. **Companies that understand Free Software culture better have an
    > easier time with compli- ance.** Bracken's products were designed
    > and built around the GNU/Linux system and Free Software
    > components. Their engineers were deeply familiar with the Free
    > Software ecosystem, and their lawyers had seen and reviewed the
    > GPL before. The violation was completely an honest mistake. Since
    > the culture inside the company had already adapted to the
    > cooperative style of resolution in the Free Software world, there
    > was very little work for either party to bring the product into
    > compliance.

1. **了解自由软件文化的企业更容易做到合规。**
    > Bracken的产品是基于GNU/Linux系统和自由软件组件而设计和构建的。他们的工程师非常熟悉自由软件生态系统，他们的律师之前阅读并审查过GPL。这次违规完全是无心之过。由于企业内部的文化已经适应了自由软件世界的协作解决方式，各方所需开展的工作很少，即可使产品重新合规。

2. **When people in key positions understand the Free Software nature
    > of their software products, compliance concerns are as mundane as
    > minor software bugs.** Even the most functional system or
    > structure has its problems, and successful business often depends
    > on agile response to the problems that do come up; avoiding
    > problems altogether is a pipe dream. Minor GPL violations can and
    > do happen even with well-informed redistributors. However,
    > resolution is reached quickly when the company --- and in
    > particular, the lawyers, managers, and engineers working on the
    > Free Software product lines --- have adapted to Free Software
    > culture that the lower-level engineer already understood

2. **当处于关键位置的人理解其软件产品的自由软件本质时，合规问题就像软件的小错误一样普通了。**
    > 即使是功能最强大的系统或结构也有它的问题，成功的业务往往取决于对出现问题的敏捷反应；完全避免问题是一个白日做梦。即使是经验丰富的再发布者也会发生轻微违反GPL的情况。然而，当企业——特别是律师、经理和在自由软件产品一线工作的工程师——就连基层工程师也已经理解并适应自由软件文化时，解决方案很快就会落实。

3. **Legally, distribution must stop when a violation is identified.**
    > In our opinion, Bracken went above and beyond the call of duty by
    > ceasing distribution while the violation was being resolved. Under
    > GPL 4, the redistributor loses the right to distribute the
    > software, and thus they are in ongoing violation of copyright law
    > if they distribute before rights are restored. It is FSF's policy
    > to temporarily allow distribution while compliance negotiations
    > are ongoing and only in the most extreme cases (where the other
    > party appears to be negotiating in bad faith) does FSF even
    > threaten an injunction on copyright grounds. However, Bracken ---
    > as a good Free Software citizen --- chose to be on the safe side
    > and do the legally correct thing while the violation case was
    > pending. From start to finish, it took less than a month to
    > resolve. This lapse in distribution did not, to FSF's knowledge,
    > impact Bracken's business in any way.

3. **依照法律要求，分发任务在确认违规行为时必须立刻中止。**
    > 从我们的角度来看，Bracken在解决违规问题时停止分发，属于超出责任范围之外。根据GPL 4，再发布者不继续享有分发软件的权利，因此，如果他们在恢复权利之前分发软件，就违反了版权法。FSF的政策是在合规谈判进行期间暂时允许发行，只有在最极端的情况下(当另一方疑似恶意谈判时)，FSF才会以版权为由发出禁止警告。然而，Bracken——作为一个优秀的自由软件公民——选择了稳妥的做法，在违规案件悬而未决的时候做了法律上正确的事情。从开始到结束，用时不到一个月就解决了。据FSF所知，这次分销上的失误并没有以任何方式影响到Bracken的业务。

4. **EULAs are a common area for GPL problems.** Often, EULAs are
    > drafted from boilerplate text that a company uses for all its
    > products. Even the most diligent attorneys forget or simply do not
    > know that a product contains software licensed under the GPL and
    > other Free Software licenses. Drafting a EULA that accounts for
    > such licenses is straightforward; the text quoted above works just
    > fine. The EULA must be designed so that it does not trump rights
    > and permissions already granted by the GPL. The EULA must clearly
    > state that if there is a conflict between it and the GPL, with
    > regard to GPL'd code, the GPL is the overriding license.

4. **EULA是GPL问题的一个常见领域。**
    > 通常情况下，EULA的策划是以企业的产品样板文本为基础的。即使是最认真的律师也会忘记或不清楚某个产品是否包含基于GPL和其他自由软件许可证的软件。起草一份对此类许可做出规范的EULA并不难，前面引用的这篇文章就是个很好的参照。EULA在设计时必须确保它不会超出GPL已经授予的权利和权限。EULA必须明确声明，如果与GPL之间存在冲突，GPL对于GPL代码具有上位覆盖许可权力。

5. **Compliance Officers are rarely necessary when companies are
    > educated about GPL com- pliance.** As we saw in the Bortez case,
    > FSF asks that a formal "GPL Compliance Officer" be appointed
    > inside a previously violating organization to shepherd the
    > organization to a cooperative approach to GPL compliance. However,
    > when FSF sees that an organization already has such an approach,
    > there is no need to request that such an officer be appointed.

5. **当企业具有GPL合规培养环境时，合规官的作用并不明显。**
    > 正如我们在Bortez案例中所看到的，FSF要求在先前违反GPL的企业内部任命一个正式的“GPL合规官”，以指导企业采取合作的方法来遵守GPL。然而，当FSF看到一个组织已经有这样的态度时，便没有必要再强制要求这类人事任命。
