

Foreword
========

Starting in the late 1960s as a way to share computer software, open
source has become one of the most influential global collaborations
representing the collective sum of humanity's knowledge due to its
funda- mental values of equal access, community-driven development,
transparency, and inclusiveness.

In the recent past, open source has faced numerous challenges
regarding security, sustainability, and legal and license compliance.
Owing much to their resiliency, open source communities have
collectively worked together in each instance to tackle these issues.

But there is a newfound concern. Software fragmentation,
politicization, weaponization, and techno-nation- alism could
negatively impact open source as a collaborative framework and
knowledge base for humanity; As such, these could broadly undermine
the original spirit of open source innovation.

This report represents an open source practitioner's view of these
challenges through extensive interviews, validating how global
communities can work together to navigate complexities so that the
open source mission as a global knowledge base and collaboration
platform for humanity remains intact.

We express our sincere gratitude to Hilary Carter of Linux Foundation
Research and Anthony D. Williams of DEEP Centre Inc., who shared our
vision for this research topic and worked diligently from ideation to
fruition. We also thank the many partners who participated and
contributed to this research. We trust that this report will serve as
a resource for all curious about the power of open source, inspiring
participants worldwide to become active contributors to open source
projects.

###### Yue Chen, Head of Technology Strategy Chris Xie, Head of Open Source Strategy Futurewei Technologies, Inc.

Executive Summary
=================

Over two decades, the open source community has grown immensely. In
2000, there were a handful of high-profile open source projects and a
small number of companies and organiza- tions to help steer the
community's evolution. Today, the global open source ecosystem
consists of millions of projects and an equally large and regionally
diverse constellation of participants.

Growing global participation in open source software (OSS) is a
testament to the ecosystem's success. However, the proliferation of
open source projects and organizations also raises a vital question:
Is fragmentation in the open source community impeding its progress?

This report draws on interviews with open source leaders to examine
fragmentation in the open source ecosystem and investigate why it
occurs, where it is beneficial, where it is problematic, and what key
stakeholders are doing to confront the challenges of fragmen- tation.
Specifically, the report examines three domains where fragmentation
poses challenges: the development of open source solutions, the
integration of diverse contributors from various regions of the world,
and the governance of open source communi- ties, including the role of
foundations in safeguarding critical open source infrastructure.

The key findings from the research are as follows:

1.  **\
    Fragmentation is a double-edged sword**. While open source leaders
    acknowledge some fragmentation-related challenges in developing open
    source solutions, they argue that a decen- tralized ecosystem will
    always have an inherent degree of fragmentation and duplication.
    Moreover, the freedom to independently modify open source code
    produces a diversity of approaches to solving problems and generates
    superior solutions. While fragmentation can sometimes result in

an inefficient allocation of resources, open source leaders caution
that efforts to reduce fragmentation could stifle competition and
innovation. In other words, solving the frag- mentation problem risks
killing the open source goose that laid the golden egg.

2.  **There is considerable heterogeneity in the software land- scape
    when it comes to fragmentation**. Ecosystem leaders observe that
    some domains are highly consolidated, whereas others are highly
    fragmented. Typically, fragmentation follows a maturity curve, where
    fragmentation is highest in the early stages of a technology's
    development and then consolidation increases over time. Examples of
    consolidated domains include operating systems (Linux), web servers
    (Apache), and web browsers (Chrome). Fragmented fields include
    embedded devices, machine learning, and blockchain.

3.  **The principal downsides of fragmentation include increased costs
    and complexity for consumers and vendors of open source solutions**.
    Several open source leaders argued that the explosion of projects on
    GitHub signals an abundance of duplication and risks a diffusion of
    the community's resources. For vendors, the proliferation of
    competing projects places a more significant burden on their
    capacity to support customers. However, end users of open source
    solutions maintain that the proliferation of projects makes it more
    challenging to identify, test, and deploy suit- able code libraries.
    Fragmentation can also reduce the open source effect of having a
    large community collaborate around a shared platform or standard.
    Finally, the most unhealthy

or disruptive forks are those implemented for non-technical
objectives, specifically for techno-nationalist reasons.

4.  **Once firmly rooted in the United States and Western Europe,
    today's open source community is increasingly global and
    cosmopolitan**. China, for example, is a signifi- cant consumer of
    and contributor to open source technol- ogies. Not only do nearly
    90% of Chinese firms use open source technologies, but Chinese users
    are also the second most prolific group on GitHub after users from
    the United States.1 However, China is not alone. Many emerging
    econo- mies contain large communities of open source developers,
    including India, Russia, Korea, and Ukraine. For low- and
    middle-income countries, engagement with open source communities is
    giving rise to new entrepreneurial ventures and accelerating the
    pace of economic development.

5.  **Language, culture, and geopolitics remain barriers to
    participation in open source communities**. While open source is
    flourishing globally, open source project leaders outside of North
    America point to language, culture, and geopolitics as genuine
    obstacles to their ability to maximize the participation of talented
    developers. Although the open source community is increasingly
    international, several

leaders argue that organizations headquartered in the United States
have outsized influence in shaping most open source projects. Open
source leaders fear that a failure to address diversity and inclusion
issues will curtail the open source community's access to talent and
ingenuity.

6.  **Diversity and inclusion are critical to building a robust open
    source talent pool**. The challenges of integrating different
    languages and cultures into open source communities are not new
    problems, and there is considerable confidence in the ecosystem's
    capacity to foster global inclusion. However, open source leaders
    agree that the community can do more to

promote global inclusion. For example, interviewees underlined the
need to invest in rapid machine translation capabilities for project
communications. Leaders also discussed the impor- tance of promoting
open source norms, taming the industry's macho "bro" culture, and
fostering professionalism in commu- nity dialogues and
decision-making.

7.  **Techno-nationalism poses a severe threat to open source
    collaboration**. Over the past decade, the United States and China
    have introduced increasingly stringent measures to restrict the
    transfer of critical innovations beyond national borders. Meanwhile,
    the war between Russia and Ukraine has heightened geopolitical
    tensions and made the security of technology supply chains a policy
    imperative. Numerous inter- viewees cited evidence that geopolitical
    tensions are creating national or regional silos in global
    innovation communities. Many open source leaders worry that rising
    protectionist measures could restrict the distribution of open
    source code and undermine the community's unfettered approach to
    inter- national collaboration.

8.  **Transparent open source development protocols are the best
    antidote for techno-nationalism**. To counter techno- nationalism,
    open source communities must alleviate fears that national interests
    or malicious actors could taint or corrupt

open source projects. Ecosystem leaders see reputation frame- works
with enhanced peer review and third-party audits as

a means to instill trust in the software development process.
Interviewees also called for open source foundations and proj- ects to
position themselves as impartial actors and neutral homes for
collaboration. They argue that establishing neutral, inclusive, and
transparent structures for cooperation will not only broaden
participation but can also reduce incentives for ecosystem
participants to create parallel efforts along national or regional
lines.

9.  **The creation of new open source projects has seen a commensurate
    increase in the number of new founda- tions.** One empirical study
    found over 100 active entities across a wide range of open source
    projects. Ecosystem leaders say the proliferation of new foundations
    and initia- tives is leading to a growing sense of engagement over-
    load and vendor fatigue, with some enterprises choosing to be more
    selective about how and where they engage. However, as open source
    becomes increasingly global, many ecosystem leaders welcome the
    creation of new open source organizations around the world. For
    example, stakeholders recognize that some regional or sector-based

foundations can more effectively cater to the needs of their unique
constituents.

10. **Ecosystem leaders want foundations to do more to align open source
    projects.** Open source foundations are reluctant to play a lead
    role in identifying and championing winning open source projects,
    arguing that picking winners is a marketplace function. However,
    leaders do see a need for better project curation and want
    foundations and other ecosystem participants to make greater efforts
    to align projects with similar objectives. To accomplish this,
    founda- tions need to enlist skilled community managers with the
    experience and know-how to compel diverse stakeholders to forge
    alignment around shared goals. Leaders also called

for foundations to bring similar projects under a shared umbrella to
eliminate duplication, economize on overhead, and reduce so-called
"vendor fatigue."

11. **Securing and safeguarding critical open source infra- structure
    should be a focal point for collaboration.** All ecosystem leaders
    agree that building trust and confidence in OSS and supporting the
    ongoing maintenance of critical open source infrastructure are
    urgent imperatives. Decentralized innovation is producing a
    remarkable tapestry of open source components that are being widely
    deployed to support the digital economy. However, leaders observe
    that maintaining these disparate components is a complex challenge
    that requires a transparent and coordinated approach and a more
    significant deployment of funding and resources from the principal
    beneficiaries of open source infrastructure.

12. **The need for enhanced collaboration extends to a range of Internet
    governance issues**. Several ecosystem leaders argued that the open
    source community has not been as influential or assertive in
    technology policy dialogues as it should be. They maintain that the
    absence of a coordinated open source response to such issues has
    left the playing field open to domination by larger,
    better-resourced entities. Many would like joint efforts to advance
    open source advo- cacy on Internet governance issues, including
    cybersecu- rity, intellectual property, privacy, and antitrust.
    Ecosystem leaders say greater alignment on policy issues among open
    source foundations would be helpful, along with the creation of open
    source program offices (OSPOs) in the public sector to facilitate
    engagement.