

Introduction
============

Over two decades, the open source community has grown immensely. In
2000, there were a handful of high-profile open source projects and a
small number of companies and organiza- tions to help steer the
community's evolution. Today, the global open source ecosystem
consists of millions of projects and an equally large and regionally
diverse constellation of participants.

Nothing underlines the open source community's growth and global reach
like GitHub. In 2010, the social coding platform hosted roughly
100,000 users and 1 million code repositories.2 As of October 2022,
GitHub hosts 83 million developers, 4 million organizations, and over
200 million open source code reposi- tories.3 Some 74% of its global
user base resides outside of the

United States, with a significant increase in the share of developers
based in Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe. Meanwhile, several
breakthrough OSS innovations have come from places such as Japan
(Ruby), Finland (Linux), and South Africa (Ubuntu).

Growing global participation in OSS is a testament to the ecosys-
tem's success. However, the proliferation of open source projects and
organizations also raises a vital question: Is fragmentation in the
open source community impeding its progress?

On the surface, the open source community's recent track record would
suggest otherwise. After all, two-plus decades of open col- laboration
have resulted in a potent array of reusable software components and
fostered unrivaled innovation and creativity in the digital economy.
One recent estimate (and most others) suggests that 70% to 90% of most
modern application stacks consist of OSS, from operating systems to
cryptography and networking functions to the enterprise applications
running mission-critical operations for global corporations.4

On the flip side, open source ecosystem leaders are raising legitimate
questions and concerns about whether fragmentation in the com- munity
could undermine several essential functions vital to a sustainable and
thriving ecosystem. For example, consider the fol- lowing three
domains:

Innovation and collaboration
----------------------------

The freedom to see, modify, and distribute code has always been the
open source community's central tenet, along with the commu- nity's
decentralized production model, which frequently results in hundreds
and sometimes thousands of independent contributors collaborating to
build and refine open source code libraries. Even the most ardent of
competitors often work together to address shared challenges, thereby
avoiding the duplication of effort while moving faster to develop and
adopt emerging standards and innovations.

The potency of the open source model notwithstanding, the stag- gering
existence of 200-million-plus projects on GitHub has stirred a debate.
Some open source leaders say the continued proliferation of new
projects and coordinating bodies creates healthy compe- tition between
rival approaches, and competition drives innova- tion. Other
participants argue that the explosion of projects signals an abundance
of duplication and risks a diffusion of the commu- nity's resources.
To what extent could increasing fragmentation in software development
efforts create inefficiencies and clutter in the marketplace for open
source solutions? And if fragmentation is indeed a problem in some
domains, what steps should the commu- nity take to align its projects,
talent, and resources?

![](media/image55.png)Global inclusion
--------------------------------------

While open source is flourishing globally, open source project leaders
outside of North America point to language, culture, and geopolitics
as genuine obstacles to their ability to maximize the par- ticipation
of talented developers. At the same time, rising global trade tensions
and political conflict risk politicizing decision-making and
participation in open source development communities. Rising
techno-nationalism, for example, has the world's advanced econ- omies
engaged in a high-stakes contest to reign supreme in key technological
domains. Could techno-nationalist policies balkanize OSS development
into regional silos and frustrate efforts to foster greater inclusion
and deepen the community's talent pool? Or could open source be the
key to avoiding balkanization across technology? As the scope and
diversity of the community increase, how can open source project
leaders integrate diverse participants and success- fully promulgate
open source norms, ethics, and best practices?

Open source governance
----------------------

Good governance is increasingly paramount as OSS becomes a vital
component of critical digital infrastructure. For example, quickly
identifying and rectifying security vulnerabilities requires timely
and effective coordination across the globally decentralized open
source community. Several open source foundations have stepped in to
help steward new initiatives designed to address the ecosystem's
vulnerabilities. However, the population of new open source
foundations continues to multiply, raising concerns about the impact
of organizational silos on cosystem governance. Are smaller, more
focused organizations more efficient and effective in addressing
narrower mandates defined by specific industries, regions, and
application spaces? Or will the continued proliferation of projects
and organizations impede efforts to create global stan- dards, address
security vulnerabilities, and promote the adoption of open source
solutions?

This report draws on interviews with open source leaders to examine
fragmentation in the open source ecosystem and investigate why it
occurs, where it is beneficial, where it is problematic, and what key
stakeholders are doing to confront the challenges of fragmentation.

-   Section 2 of the report discusses the benefits and potential
    pitfalls of fragmentation in the development of open source code.

-   Section 3 examines the internationalization of open source and
    highlights the tools and methods project leaders are deploying to
    overcome potential barriers to participation in open source
    communities.

-   Section 4 assesses the implications of techno-nationalism for open
    source collaboration and proposes strategies for reducing the risks
    of regional balkanization.

-   Section 5 provides stakeholder reflections on the state of open
    source governance and identifies several priorities for increased
    collaboration between open source foundations.

-   Section 6 provides a summary of key findings and recommendations.


Enabling Innovation and Collaboration
=====================================

促成创新与协作
=====================================

In a study of fragmentation in OSS ecosystems, Professor Christopher
Yoo at the University of Pennsylvania Law School posits that the
inherent freedom of action that characterizes OSS development creates
the potential for excessive fragmentation. Excessive frag- mentation,
Yoo alleges, creates a host of challenges for the open source
community. As Yoo put it:

宾夕法尼亚大学法学院的 Christopher Yoo 教授在一项关于开源软件生态系统分裂的研究中提出，开源软件开发所特有的行动自由创造了过度分裂的可能性。Yoo 称，过度的分裂会给开源社区带来一系列的挑战。以下为原文：

#### "On the one hand, users' freedom to customize software is integral to the open source movement... On the other hand, infinite flexibility creates costs for the open source community by requiring the diffusion of effort and the duplication of work across multiple projects. Fragmentation also harms device manufacturers and app developers by limiting interoperability and by requiring them to adapt their products for what are now separate platforms."5

#### “一方面，用户定制软件的自由是开源的组成部分。另一方面，无限的灵活性要求在多个项目中分散精力和重复工作，这样会给开源社区带来成本。碎片化也损害了设备制造商和应用程序开发人员，因为它限制了互操作性，并要求他们为现在的独立平台调整其产品。”<sup>5</sup>

Yoo's research refers principally to the problem of forking in open
source development projects. He argues that the most extreme form of
fragmentation occurs when a contributor to an open source project
customizes the community's source code to the extent that it is no
longer fully interoperable with the rest of the project. The result is
to divide the system into two distinct and incompatible versions.
Given the economic inefficiencies that ensue, Yoo concludes that "some
constraints on the flexibility of open source are thus inevitable."6

Yoo 的研究内容主要是指开源开发项目中的复刻问题。他认为，当一个开源项目的贡献者将社区的源代码修改到不再能与项目的其他部分完全互通的程度时，就会出现最极端的分裂形式。最终的结果是将系统分为两个不同的、不兼容的版本。鉴于随之而来的经济效率低下，Yoo 总结为："因此，对开源的灵活性的一些限制是不可避免的。"<sup>6</sup>

In discussing fragmentation with open source leaders, a starting point
for many is the recognition that forking and duplication are
inevitable and often desirable consequences of a decentralized
ecosystem.

在与开源领袖讨论碎片化问题时，许多人的出发点是承认复刻和重复是不可避免的，而这往往是去中心化生态系统中不可避免的结果。

Decentralization, several argued, is not necessarily an optimal design
for efficiency, but it is a powerful engine for innovation. "The whole
open source world is a testament to the power of decentralization,"
said Rod Beckstrom, former CEO of ICANN and director of the U.S.
National Cybersecurity Center. "One conse- quence of decentralization
is overlap and redundancy. You cannot end the overlap without central
control. You can evolve or nudge a decentralized system, but there is
no means to control it."

一些人认为，去中心化不一定是效率最佳的设计，但它能推动创新。ICANN 前 CEO、美国国家网络安全中心主任 Rod Beckstrom 说："整个开源世界证明了去中心化的力量"。"去中心化的一个后果是重叠和冗余。如果没有中央控制，就无法避免重叠。你可以发展或推动一个去中心化的系统，但没有办法控制它。"

Moreover, most participants of the study are comfortable with the
reality that a decentralized open source ecosystem will always feature
some inherent degree of disorder. As Mark Surman, presi- dent of the
Mozilla Foundation, put it, "The point of open source is that it's
decentralized. The ability to gather a set of people to col- laborate
around a particular problem or domain has always been the challenge
and opportunity of open source. Can we pool our

resources in a way that we can get enough value back out from the
resources that I am putting in? The freedom to convene and collab-
orate means you will never have perfect order."

此外，大多数研究的参与者都认为去中心化的开源生态系统将总是具有一些内在的无序程度。正如 Mozilla 基金会主席 Mark Surman 所说："开源的意义在于去中心化。聚集一群人围绕一个特定的问题或领域进行合作的能力，一直是开源的挑战和机遇。我们能否以一种方式汇集我们的资源，使我们能够从我投入的资源中获得足够的价值回报？召集和协作的自由意味着你永远不会有完美的秩序"。

More fundamentally, open source leaders argue that forking is part of
the standard workflow for open source projects and an essential aspect
of how software systems evolve and improve over time. "In good forks,
you take a code library and address a problem that the community has
not previously addressed," said Tim Bird, a senior software engineer
with Sony Mobile Communications. "Developers split off to address the
new problem and eventually come back together to reintegrate the new
code into the larger ecosystem." In practice, Jim Zemlin, executive
director of the Linux Foundation, points to several reasons to
fragment or fork a component, such as

addressing a significant technical problem or solving security issues.

更为根本的是，开放源码的领导者认为，复刻是开源项目标准工作流程的一部分，也是开源项目随着时间推移而演变和改进的一个重要方式。索尼移动通信公司的高级软件工程师 Tim Bird 说：”在优秀的复刻库中，你可以利用一个代码库，解决一个社区以前没有解决的问题“。“开发者分开来解决新的问题，并最终回到一起，将新的代码重新整合到更大的生态系统中”。在实践中，Linux 基金会的执行董事 Jim Zemlin 指出了分割或复刻一个组件的几个原因，如解决一个重要的技术问题或解决安全问题。

The freedom to independently experiment with an existing code library
is especially beneficial when developers go off to try new

[]{#_bookmark7 .anchor}ideas, add new features, and explore new use
cases for OSS. "The codebases get stronger and stronger as a result,"
said Mike Dolan of the Linux Foundation, "because developers address
their specific use cases without breaking things for everybody else."
He adds, "The key part is that developers bring those new fragments
back into the core upstream open source project."

当开发者去尝试新的[]{#_bookmark7 .anchor}理念，增加新的功能，探索开源软件的新用例时，独立实验现有代码库的自由尤其有益。"代码库因此变得越来越强大，"Linux 基金会的 Mike Dolan 说，"因为开发者解决了他们特定的用例，而没有破坏其他人的东西。" 他补充说："关键的部分是，开发人员将这些新的片段带回核心的上游开源项目中。"

Ultimately, ecosystem leaders agree that decentralized collabora- tion
has resulted in a remarkable tapestry of independent open source
components that developers can put together to do some- thing bigger
and more useful. "We have a huge variety of software to choose from
now," said Bird. "In many ways, we are in the golden age of open
source." Jim Zemlin amplifies this point, noting that a typical
software package has 4,000 to 5,000 open source components. "The
availability of lots of reusable components dramatically increases the
efficiency of software development and speeds time to market," said
Zemlin. "Enterprises can innovate around the edges. They don't have to
build everything from scratch. The availability of reusable components
also prevents a lot of fragmentation because everyone is drawing from
the same code libraries. Nobody is taking the Linux kernel and
creating a new version."

最终，生态系统的领导者们一致认为，去中心化的合作导致了独立的开源组件的非凡织锦，开发者可以把它们放在一起做一些更大、更有用的事情。“我们现在有大量的软件可供选择。”Bird说。“在许多方面，我们正处于开源的黄金时代。”吉姆-泽姆林放大了这一点，他指出，一个典型的软件包有 4000 到 5000 个开源组件。Zemlin 说：”大量可重复使用的组件的可用性极大地提高了软件开发的效率，并加快了上市时间”。“企业可以在边缘地带进行创新。他们不必从头开始建立一切。可重复使用的组件的可用性也防止了大量的碎片化，因为每个人都是从相同的代码库中提取的。没有人拿着 Linux 内核去创造一个新的版本”。

Even when fragmentation produces overlap and redundancy, open source
leaders warn that attempts to control or curtail the freedom inherent
in open source development could be more harmful than the
fragmentation itself. "Fragmentation is the inno- vation engine," said
Mike Milinkovich, executive director of the Eclipse Foundation.
"Developers must be allowed to foster new ideas and projects. Anything
that brings a draconian order to the production side of the equation
is doomed to fail."

即使碎片化产生了重叠和冗余，开源领导人警告说，试图控制或削减开源开发中固有的自由，可能比碎片化本身危害更大。"碎片化是创新的引擎，" Eclipse 基金会的执行董事 Mike Milinkovich 说。"必须允许开发者培养新的想法和项目。任何给生产方面带来严格限制令的东西都是注定要失败的。"

#### "Over time, competition between rival approaches gives way to increasing consolidation as market forces separate the winners from the losers."

#### “随着时间推移，市场将赢家和输家区分开来，竞争对手之间也开始进行合作。”

 Fragmentation across the software landscape
-------------------------------------------

软件环境中的碎片化
-------------------------------------------

Open source leaders concede that fragmentation is not a grave problem
in the open source ecosystem but part of the essential life cycle in
how the community develops software. Fragmentation is not only normal
but largely healthy as well. As Astor Nummelin Carlberg, executive
director of OpenForum Europe, put it, "The resilience of the system
increases when there are competing alter- natives. Competition can
also drive innovation. The distributed nature of open source produces
a diversity of thought and differ- ent approaches to solving
problems."

开放源码的领导者承认，碎片化并不是开放源码生态系统的一个严重问题，而是社区开发软件的基本生命周期的一部分。碎片化不仅是正常的，而且在很大程度上也是健康的。正如欧洲开放论坛的执行董事Astor Nummelin Carlberg 所说，"当有竞争性的替代方案时，系统的恢复能力就会增加。竞争也可以推动创新。开源的分布式性质产生了思想的多样性和解决问题的不同方法"。

However, looking across the software landscape, there is consid-
erable heterogeneity in the degree of fragmentation, and leaders
suggest that not all of it is desirable. Some domains are highly con-
solidated, while others feature a multiplicity of different software
packages. Typically, the level of fragmentation follows a maturity
curve where experimentation (and thus some inherent duplication of
effort) is highest in the early stages of developing applications for
a given domain. Over time, competition between rival approaches gives
way to increasing consolidation as market forces separate the winners
from the losers.

然而，纵观整个软件领域，碎片化程度有相当大的异质性，而且领导者认为并非所有的碎片化都是可取的。领导人表示，并非所有的分散都是可取的。一些领域是高度整合的，而另一些领域则有许多不同的软件包。通常情况下，碎片化程度遵循一个成熟度曲线。在为一个特定领域开发应用的早期阶段，实验（以及一些固有的重复工作）的碎片化程度是最高的。随着时间推移，市场将赢家和输家区分开来，竞争对手之间也开始进行合作。

Several open source leaders point to Linux as a quintessential example
of healthy consolidation. "Linux has been around for 32 years," said
Alan Clark of the CTO Office at SUSE. "It's very mature. Sometimes you
get new community distributions of Linux, but they occupy particular
niches. In short, we see creativity around the edges, with developers
incorporating their innovations into the main kernel."

一些开源的领导人指出，Linux 是一个典型的健康整合的例子。”Linux 已经存在了 32 年。“ SUSE 公司 CTO 办公室的 Alan Clark 说。“它是非常成熟的。有时你会得到新的 Linux 社区发行版，而他们也占据了一席之地。简而言之，我们看到了边缘的创造力，开发者们将他们的创新融入到主内核中"。

Jerry Cuomo, an IBM fellow and VP and CTO of Technology & Consulting,
adds that the open source community's ability to foster broad
participation in developing and using shared platforms has been
enormously beneficial. "Linux has been inviting for diverse col-
laboration for decades, but it also invites fierce competition," said
Cuomo. "You can contribute your piece to the kernel and then pull in

![](media/image57.png)

proprietary components to compete with other vendors. The key to its
success is the architecture and heavy-handed prescription about
keeping people focused on the core Linux kernel. The Apache web server
is another example of this. There is only one Apache server, and the
Web wouldn't be the same without it."

IBM 研究员、技术与咨询部副总裁兼首席技术官 Jerry Cuomo 补充说，开源社区促进广泛参与开发和使用共享平台的能力为很多人提供了帮助。“几十年来，Linux 一直在吸引各种各样的合作，但它也引发了激烈的竞争，”Cuomo 说，"你可以把你的那部分贡献给内核，然后拉进专有组件，与其他供应商竞争。其成功的关键是架构和关于让人们专注于核心 Linux 内核的重磅规定。Apache 网络服务器就是一个例子。如果只有 Apache 服务器，网络就不可能是现在这个样子了。

Several leaders argued that, in some domains, too much consoli- dation
is a more significant concern than too much fragmentation. "In the
core areas where open source is prominent, do we have the opposite
problem?" asks Mark Surman of the Mozilla Foundation. "Is open source
too concentrated? And when is concentration

okay? There's a big difference between the collaborative mainte- nance
of an open standard and the dominance of a single product. In
browsers, you could argue that we need more fragmentation, not less.
Look at Google's Chrome. It dominates the market."

几位领导人认为，在某些领域，过多的合并比过多的分散更令人担忧。"在开源突出的核心领域，我们是否有相反的问题？"Mozilla 基金会的 Mark Surman 问道。”开源代码是否过于集中？什么时候集中是好的呢？开放标准的合作性维护和单一产品的主导地位之间有很大区别。在浏览器方面，你可以说我们需要更多的碎片化，而不是更少。比如谷歌的 Chrome 浏览器，现在已经主导了市场。“

By contrast, fragmentation is prominent in domains that are earlier in
the maturity cycle and where open source is less established. "Look at
various aspects of AI," said Surman. "It's still early days.

相比之下，在成熟周期较早、开放源码建立较少的领域，碎片化现象十分突出。"看看人工智能的各个方面，"苏尔曼说。"这仍然是早期的事情。

There are many players. Perhaps there is some fragmentation in machine
learning frameworks. But it should be up to the market to decide which
solutions, standards, and products will prevail."

也许在机器学习框架中存在一些碎片化现象。但应该由市场来决定哪些解决方案、标准和产品会占上风"。

Where else do open source leaders see challenges with fragmenta- tion?
As Tim Bird of Sony put it, "If you don't see the fragmentation, you
are not looking very hard. Just look at a range of stacks. There is
way too much software that does similar things. It becomes a burden.
Both the consumer electronics and automotive industries have issues.
Fragmentation in graphic APIs is very painful. There are no standards.
Everyone is doing their own thing."

开源领袖们还在哪里看到了碎片化的挑战？Sony 的 Tim Bird 指出，”如果认真看，就会看到碎片化。看看现在已有的东西就知道了。有太多的软件在做类似的事情，这成为了一种负担。消费电子和汽车行业都有问题。图形 API 的碎片化没有标准，这是非常痛苦的。每个人都各自为战。“

Both Bird and Clark describe the embedded device space as rife with
fragmentation. "In embedded electronics, there is a natural tendency
to fragment," said Bird. "It is different from the desktop and
enterprise software space. To conserve resources, you tighten down the
screws and build software solutions that are highly cus- tomized to
the manufacturer's hardware. For example, the television stack is very
different across different manufacturers. Developers code the software
close to the metal to optimize performance. That causes a lot of
fragmentation."

Bird 和Clark 都说嵌入式设备领域充斥着碎片化的现象。”在嵌入式电子产品中，有一个自然的趋势，就是将其碎片化。“ Bird 说到。”它与桌面和企业软件领域不同。为了节约资源，你拧紧螺丝，建立高度定制的软件解决方案，以适应制造商的硬件。例如，不同制造商的电视零件是非常不同的。开发者为了优化性能而尽可能地使用底层语言去开发软件。这导致了大量的碎片化。“

Gabriele Columbro of FINOS and Linux Foundation Europe, on the other
hand, calls blockchain one of the most fragmented domains. "There are
too many foundations, platforms, standards, and cur- rencies," said
Columbro. "Many players call themselves open source but not openly
governed. The result is a proliferation of forks. You don't get
consolidation when you don't have clear and

transparent governance."

另一方面，FINOS 和欧洲 Linux 基金会的 Gabriele Columbro 称区块链是最零散的领域之一。”已经有太多的基金会、平台、标准和货币“，Columbro 说。许多项目自称是开源的，但没有开放的管理。其结果是复刻的泛滥。当你没有明确和透明的管理时，你的项目就不会发展。

Fragmentation challenges and solutions
--------------------------------------

碎片化的挑战和解决方案
--------------------------------------

#### "Open source is reducing fragmentation, not causing it."

#### ”开源正在减少碎片化，而不是导致碎片化。“

Several leaders consulted for the study see what they describe as
problematic instances of fragmentation in the development of

open source solutions. So, what are the potential costs to the eco-
system? The principal downsides of fragmentation are increased cost
and complexity for consumers and vendors of open source solutions.
Fragmentation can also reduce the open source effect of having a large
community collaborate around a shared platform or standard, resulting
in a less efficient deployment of resources.

接受调研的几位领导人看到了他们所描述的开源解决方案发展中存在的碎片化问题的实例。那么，生态系统的潜在成本是什么？碎片化的主要坏处是增加了消费者和开源解决方案供应商的成本和复杂性。碎片化也会降低开源的效果，让一个庞大的社区围绕一个共享的平台或标准进行合作，导致资源部署的效率降低。

For vendors, the proliferation of competing projects places a more
significant burden on their capacity to support customers. "The
disadvantage of fragmentation is that it increases costs and

causes vendors to deploy more resources," said Alan Clark of SUSE.
"You must track what is going on, assess the efficacy of different
approaches, and sometimes you have to support multiple solu- tions for
your customers. The duplication of effort equals more resources and
more cost. And then it creates a challenge around standards and
compatibility issues."

对于供应商来说，竞争项目的激增给他们带来了更大的压力。”碎片化增加了成本，导致供应商部署更多的资源”，SUSE 的 Alan Clark 说。你必须跟踪正在发生的事情，评估不同方法的功效，有时你必须为你的客户支持多种解决方案。重复的努力意味着更多的资源和更多的成本。继而，它又会引发标准和兼容性问题。

#### "Without open source, the redundancy and fragmentation just happen behind closed doors with lots of individual proprietary projects." **- STORMY PETERS**

####  “如果没有开源，大量的独立项目都会闭门造车，导致冗余和碎片化。”**- STORMY PETERS**

On the other hand, end users of open source solutions maintain that
the proliferation of projects makes it more challenging to identify,
test, and deploy suitable code libraries. Tim Bird of Sony, for
example, argues that fragmentation in the software environ- ment adds
time and cost to the development process for device manufacturers. "We
look for open source code libraries to tackle particular problems,"
said Bird, "but when the open source projects proliferate, it requires
a lot of research and customization to find

a library that is suitable for our needs." Maintenance is another
challenge, according to Bird. "When new forks emerge, it splits

the community and results in fewer developers on each fork to fix bugs
or address security concerns. Fragmentation creates duplica- tion of
effort. We lose the open source effect."

另一方面，开源解决方案的终端用户坚持认为，项目的激增使得识别、测试和部署合适的代码库更具挑战性。例如，Sony 的 Tim Bird 认为，软件环境的碎片化给设备制造商的开发过程增加了时间和成本。Bird 说，“我们通过寻找开源代码库来解决特定的问题，但当开源项目激增时，需要大量的研究和修改来找到适合我们需求的库。”Bird 表示维护项目也是一个难题。“当新的复刻库出现时，它分裂了社区，导致每个复刻库上修复错误或解决安全问题的开发人员减少。”

According to Jerry Cuomo of IBM, fragmentation can create addi- tional
inefficiencies in the marketplace for solutions. "For open source to
work well on the business side, you need a healthy eco- system of
competing solutions that orbit around shared platforms," said Cuomo.
"An enterprise that uses open source needs to know that the vendor
will support its solution. Can I trust it? Is it secure? What if the
vendor lets you down? What do you do?" Cuomo and others note that
enterprises can freely move from vendor to vendor when the vendors
work around a shared platform. "They can go for better prices and
better solutions," said Cuomo. "It creates healthy competition and
lowers lock-in and switching costs for enterprise users.
Non-fragmented ecosystems create an open economy. When it's
fragmented, you don't have that as much."

据 IBM 的 Jerry Cuomo 说，碎片化会造成额外的损失。“要使开源在商业方面运作良好，你需要一个由围绕共享平台的竞争性解决方案组成的健康的生态系统，”Cuomo 说到，“使用开放源码的企业需要知道，供应商将支持其解决方案。他值得信任吗？是不是安全的？如果供应商不支持怎么办？等等。”Cuomo 等人指出，当供应商基于共享平台工作时，企业可以自由地从一个供应商转移到另一个供应商。“他们可以去争取更好的价格和更好的解决方案。”Cuomo 说，“它创造了良性竞争，降低了企业用户的锁定和转换成本。非碎片化的生态系统创造了一个开放的经济当它是碎片化的时候，你就不会有那么多。”

For the broader ecosystem of contributors to open source solu- tions,
there is an argument that duplication and redundancy rep- resent an
inefficient deployment of the community's resources. "On the one hand,
you can argue that overlapping or redundant efforts are a waste of
talent and resources," said Astor Nummelin Carlberg of OpenForum
Europe. "On the other hand, we also see gaps in the marketplace, with
competing projects in high-demand areas and less focus on critical
areas that demand attention."

对于更广泛的开源解决方案的贡献者的生态系统来说，有一种说法是，重复和冗余代表了社区资源的低效部署。“一方面，你可以说重叠或多余的工作是对人才和资源的一种浪费。”欧洲开放论坛的 Astor Nummelin Carlberg 说到，“另一方面，我们也看到了市场上的差距，在高需求的领域有竞争性的项目，而对需要关注的关键领域的关注则较少。”

In the final analysis, fragmentation is a double-edged sword. On the
one hand, the software ecosystem needs healthy competition between
rival ideas and approaches. Nobody consulted for the study wants to
reduce fragmentation at the expense of competi- tion and innovation.
Moreover, looking across the entire software landscape, there is a
solid case to be made that open source is reducing fragmentation, not
causing it. As Stormy Peters of GitHub put it, "Without open source,
the redundancy and fragmentation just happen behind closed doors with
lots of individual propri- etary projects."

![](media/image59.png)On the other hand, leaders acknowledge that a
decentralized open source ecosystem will inevitably produce duplicate
projects and, thus, some inefficiencies for vendors and other partici-
pants. "For a company like SUSE and other vendors," said Clark,
"duplication creates a challenge because we need to be selective
regarding which projects we will support. Which projects offer the
most robust solution and a supportable future? Which solu- tions are
the most relevant to our customers?"

归根结底，碎片化是一把双刃剑。一方面，软件生态系统需要对手的想法和方法之间的良性竞争。接受调研的人都不希望以牺牲竞争和创新为代价来减少分裂。此外，纵观整个软件领域，有充分的理由证明，开源正在减少碎片化，而不是导致碎片化。正如 GitHub 的 Stormy Peters 所说，“如果没有开源，大量的独立项目都会闭门造车，导致冗余和碎片化。”另一方面，领导人承认，一个去中心化的开源生态系统将不可避免地产生重复的项目，因此，对供应商和其他参与者来说，会有一些低效的问题。Clark 说，“对于像 SUSE 和其他供应商这样的公司来说，重复给我们带来了挑战，因为我们需要甄别支持哪些项目。哪些项目提供最稳定的解决方案，在未来能一直支持？哪些解决方案最适合我们的客户？”

Some enterprise leaders suggested that open source foundations could
intervene in fragmented domains by helping to identify and champion
winning solutions. However, foundation leaders pushed back on this
idea, asserting that market forces rather than founda- tions should
determine the winners. "We help competitors, suppli- ers, and
customers all work together and build things in a neutral forum," said
Mike Dolan of the Linux Foundation. "And, in an open forum where
anybody can participate, people vote by showing

up. If they show up with their developers, resources, and buying
power, those projects can become de facto standards. That's how the
tech industry picks winners."

一些企业领导人建议，开源基金会可以通过帮助识别和支持成功的解决方案来干预碎片化领域。然而，基金会领导人对这一想法进行了反驳，声称最后的赢家应该由市场力量而不是基金会决定。“我们帮助竞争者、供应商和客户一起工作，并在一个中立的论坛上进行工作。”Linux 基金会的 Mike Dolan 说到，“在一个开放的论坛里，大家用脚投票。如果开发人员、资源和购买力等都集中向了某些项目，那么这些项目可以成为事实上的标准。这就是科技行业的竞争的方式。”

Most open source leaders agree that when the ecosystem follows open
source principles, the fragmentation and duplication of effort

get resolved over time. "We want to see different ideas in a new
space, and we want them to try them out in rapid succession," said
Mike Milinkovich of Eclipse. "Open source is the best way to do that.

You do not want to corral that innovation; we want to encourage it.
Competition will determine the winners and losers. Over time, projects
will consolidate, and the ecosystem can move forward."

大多数开源领袖都同意，当生态系统遵循开源原则时，碎片化和重复工作会随着时间的推移得到解决。“我们希望在一个新的空间里看到不同的想法，并希望他们迅速地尝试这些想法。”Eclipse 的 Mike Milinkovich 说到，“开源是最好的方式。你不应该紧固创新，而是应该鼓励创新。赢家和输家通过竞争决出。随着时间的推移，项目将得到发展，而生态系统也可以向前发展。”

Open source leaders also insist that intelligent project design can go
a long way toward reducing unnecessary fragmenta- tion. Establishing
neutral, inclusive, and transparent structures for collaboration will
broaden the tent and reduce incentives to create parallel efforts.
"When we launch a project, we do it in a way that says this is going
to be neutral," said Mike Dolan of the

Linux Foundation. He points to Kubernetes, where Google went to great
lengths to distribute control over the project and reassure other
contributors that Google was ready and willing to collabo- rate.
"Google could have open sourced Kubernetes and kept all the maintainer
control," said Dolan. "Instead, they handed off key parts of the
codebase to other companies and leaders who proved very capable of
doing it. In doing so, Google got broad buy-in and helped make
Kubernetes the de facto standard for the industry."

开放源码的领导者还坚持认为，明智的项目设计可以在很大程度上减少不必要的碎片化现象。建立中立、包容和透明的协作关系，会让我们未来的路更宽，也可以减少重复劳动。“当我们启动一个项目时，我们应该让它成为中立的。”Linux 基金会的 Mike Dolan 说到。他指出，在 Kubernetes 中，谷歌花了很大力气来分配对项目的控制权，并向其他贡献者保证，谷歌已经准备好并愿意进行合作。Dolan 说，“谷歌本可以将 Kubernetes 开源，并保持所有维护者的控制权。但我们（没有这么做，而是）把代码库的关键部分交给了其他公司和领导人，事实证明他们非常有能力做到这一点。这样做以后，谷歌得到了广泛的支持，并使 Kubernetes 成为了行业的事实标准。”