

Promoting Global Inclusion 促进全球包容
==========================

Once firmly rooted in the United States, today's open source community
is increasingly global and cosmopolitan. China, for example, has
become a significant consumer of and contributor to open source
technologies. Not only do nearly 90% of Chinese firms use open source
technologies(7), Chinese users are the second most prolific group on
GitHub after users from the United States.(8)

曾经在美国根深蒂固的开源社区，今天正变得越来越全球化和国际化。例如，中国已经成为开源技术的重要消费者和贡献者。不仅近90%的中国公司使用开源技术（7），中国用户是GitHub上仅次于美国用户的第二大用户群体。(8)

With China intent on boosting its software prowess, Chinese par-
ticipation in open source will increase dramatically in the years
ahead. China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT)
has expressed concerns about its domestic software indus- try's
international competitiveness and sees deeper participation in
international open source projects as a means to place itself on an
equal footing with global players(9). Among the plans to improve the
state of homegrown software, the MIIT is investing in a series of
software parks, implementing additional policy supports, and creating
two or three open source foundations or communities to bolster China's
international influence.

随着中国致力于提升其软件实力，中国在开源领域的参与度将在未来几年大幅增加。中国工业和信息化部（MIIT）对其国内软件产业的国际竞争力表示担忧，并将更深入地参与国际开源项目视为一种手段，使其与全球玩家处于平等地位(9)。工信部正在投资一系列软件园区，实施额外的政策支持，并创建两三个开源基金会或社区，以增强中国的国际影响力。

#### "A global open collaboration orchestrated by an effective foundation is arguably the best way to reduce fragmentation and promote international cooperation."
#### “一个由高效基金会策划的全球开源协作可以说是减少碎片化和促进国际合作的最佳方式”

Chinese technology leaders have already initiated and championed
several prominent open source projects. Alibaba, for example,
has one of China's most robust open source talent pools. An active
participant in RISC-V, the global open source semiconduc- tor
community, the e-commerce giant recently took the bold step of open
sourcing its semiconductor design development via the OpenXuantie
project.(10) In another example, Baidu launched Apollo in 2017, which
has since evolved into one of the world's leading open source
solutions for autonomous vehicles.(11) Baidu is lever- aging driverless
technology in its Apollo Go robotaxi service. The

autonomous taxi service currently operates in five Chinese cities, but
the company plans to expand Apollo Go to 65 cities by 2025 and then
100 cities by 2030.(12)

中国技术领袖已经发起并支持了几个著名的开源项目。例如，阿里巴巴拥有中国最强大的开源人才库之一。作为RISC-V（全球开源半导体制造商社区）的积极参与者，这家电子商务巨头最近采取了大胆的步骤，通过OpenXuantie项目对其半导体设计开发进行开源。（10） 在另一个例子中，百度于2017年推出了Apollo，此后，Apollo已发展成为全球领先的自动驾驶汽车开源解决方案之一。（11） 百度正在其Apollo Go机器人出租车服务中利用无人驾驶技术。自动驾驶出租车服务目前在中国五个城市运营，但该公司计划到2025年将Apollo Go扩展到65个城市，然后到2030年扩展到100个城市。

China is a prominent example of the globalization of OSS. However,
many emerging economies contain large communities of open source
developers, including India, Russia, Korea, and Ukraine. Harvard
Business School researchers Nataliya Langburd Wright, Frank Nagle, and
Shane Greenstein observe in a recent study that "Just like their
counterparts in developed economies, programmers around the globe
employ open source tools, speak the vocabulary of open source, and
interact with open source libraries."(13) Engagement with OSS
communities, in turn, is giving rise to new entrepreneurial ventures
and accelerating the pace of economic development. Wright, Nagle, and
Greenstein conclude that "\[OSS\] represents an opportunity for low-
and middle-in- come countries to reach the technological frontier more
quickly than if they needed to develop such software from scratch or
obtain it from costly sources\..."(14)

中国是开放源码软件全球化的一个突出例子。然而，许多新兴经济体包含大量开源开发者，包括印度、俄罗斯、韩国和乌克兰。哈佛商学院（Harvard Business School）的研究人员纳塔丽娅·朗伯德·赖特（Nataliya Langburd Wright）、弗兰克·纳格尔（Frank Nagle）和谢恩·格林斯坦（Shane Greenstein）在最近的一项研究中观察到，“与发达经济体的同行一样，全球各地的程序员使用开源工具，使用开源词汇，并与开源库互动。”，正在催生新的创业企业，加快经济发展步伐。Wright、Nagle和Greenstein总结道，“OSS为中低收入国家提供了一个机会使其可以更快抵达技术前沿，相比从头开始开发此类软件或从昂贵的来源获得此类软件……”（14）

Calista Redmond, CEO of RISC-V, argues that a global open collabo-
ration orchestrated by an effective foundation is arguably the best
way to reduce fragmentation and promote international coopera- tion.
"Collaboration on open standards and software has proven throughout
history that alignment to a shared collective model reduces the
temptation and economic feasibility for ecosystem participants to take
a proprietary approach to common building blocks," said Redmond. "We
are creating a strong foundation with a global community where roughly
one-third of our members are in NA, one-third in AMEA, and one-third
in APAC."

RISC-V首席执行官Calista Redmond认为，由一个有效的基金会组织的全球开放合作可以说是减少分裂和促进国际合作的最佳方式。Redmond表示：“在开放标准和软件上的合作在整个历史上都证明，与共享的集体模型相一致，可以减少生态系统参与者对共同构建块采取专有方法的诱惑和经济可行性。”。“我们正在建立一个强大的全球社区基础，其中约三分之一的成员在北美，三分之一在欧洲、中东和非洲，三分一在亚太地区。”

"It's easier to collaborate globally now," said Redmond. "We have the
technology to support globally distributed teams." Redmond points to
growing global participation in RISC-V's technical working

groups. Today, RISC-V has 65+ working groups.
Redmond said there could be 80 by the end of 2022. "Now we are
starting to ship actual products in a variety of vertical markets,
including automo- tive, industrials, transportation, and aerospace.
It's a remarkable time. We are building a robust ecosystem across
workloads, from embedded to enterprise, and accomplishing in five or
six years what it took earlier microprocessor architectures 20 years
to do."

雷德蒙说：“现在全球合作更容易了。”。“我们拥有支持全球分布式团队的技术。”Redmond指出，RISC-V技术工作组的全球参与度越来越高。如今，RISC-V拥有65个以上的工作组。雷德蒙表示，到2022年底可能会有80人。“现在，我们开始在各种垂直市场销售实际产品，包括汽车、工业、运输和航空航天。这是一个了不起的时刻。我们正在构建一个从嵌入式到企业级的跨工作负载的强大生态系统，并在五到六年内完成了早期微处理器架构20年才能完成的任务。”

The barriers to global participation
------------------------------------
全球参与的障碍
------------------------------------

#### "The hegemony of North American participants can overshadow open source projects that originated in other parts of the world."
#### “北美参与者的霸权可能会使起源于世界其他地区的开源项目黯然失色。”

Open source leaders consulted for the study agree that global
participation in open source is on the rise. However, there is also
broad recognition that a failure to eliminate several formidable
barriers to full participation could result in regional fragmenta-
tion in the open source ecosystem. For example, leaders point to
language, culture, and geopolitics as ongoing challenges. There also
remains a prevalent sense that companies and foundations headquartered
in the United States have outsized influence in shaping most open
source projects.

为这项研究咨询的开源领袖一致认为，全球对开源的参与正在增加。然而，人们也普遍认识到，如果不能消除充分参与的几个巨大障碍，可能会导致开源生态系统的区域分裂。例如，领导人将语言、文化和地缘政治视为持续的挑战。人们还普遍认为，总部设在美国的公司和基金会在塑造大多数开源项目方面具有巨大的影响力。

Among the first challenges raised by interviewees is the tech
industry's long history of systemic discrimination, including its
deeply entrenched sexism and its dismal record on diversity and
inclusion. Interviewees suggest that open source communities are not
immune to these challenges, despite the community's efforts to address
them. "Some parts of the open source world still feel like old school
'bro' culture," said Mark Surman of the Mozilla Foundation. "That's a
big issue in a world where diversity of thought and experience are key
assets."

受访者提出的首要挑战之一是科技行业长期存在的系统性歧视，包括根深蒂固的性别歧视，以及在多样性和包容性方面的糟糕记录。受访者表示，尽管社区努力应对这些挑战，但开源社区并不能幸免。Mozilla基金会的Mark Surman表示：“开源世界的一些地方仍然感觉像是老派的‘兄弟’文化。”。“在一个思想和经验多样性是关键资产的世界，这是一个大问题。”

Open source leaders fear that a failure to address the open source
community's "bro" culture will curtail its access to talent and inge-
nuity. "The people who don't feel welcomed will build technology in other ways," said Surman. "Unfortunately, that could mean that the
best talent will build proprietary technology because they don't have
the time and resources to contribute for free."

开源领袖担心，如果不能解决开源社区的“兄弟”文化，将限制其获取人才和创造力的机会。苏尔曼说：“那些感觉不受欢迎的人会以其他方式构建技术。”。“不幸的是，这可能意味着最优秀的人才将建立专有技术，因为他们没有时间和资源免费贡献。”

Ramon Roche, general manager of the DroneCode Foundation, argues that
another cultural barrier to global participation is the lack of
acceptance of open source methods and principles in some regions. "In
Latin America, we still lack validation that open source is a key
component of success and a valid way to produce software," said Roche.
"Managers and decision-makers don't understand how the open source
community works, and develop- ers often fight uphill battles to
contribute to open source efforts."

When Roche started creating open source code for drones 10 years ago
in Mexico, he struggled to find a vibrant open source community
locally and lacked the know-how to build one from scratch. "There was
nowhere to go for support or help," said Roche. "Most of the open
source organizations are based in North America. The estab- lished
tech players like Google, Meta, and Microsoft, and the people that
work there, control what is going on. They lead steering commit- tees
as well. You need to finance your seat or be a maintainer or top
contributor to be visible and influential in the community."

DroneCode基金会总经理拉蒙·罗什（Ramon Roche）认为，阻碍全球参与的另一个文化障碍是在某些地区缺乏对开源方法和原则的接受。罗氏表示：“在拉丁美洲，我们仍然缺乏对开源是成功的关键组成部分和生产软件的有效途径的验证。”。“管理者和决策者不了解开源社区是如何运作的，开发人员经常为了为开源工作做出贡献而进行艰苦的斗争。”

10年前，当Roche在墨西哥开始为无人机创建开源代码时，他很难在当地找到一个充满活力的开源社区，并且缺乏从头开始构建开源社区的诀窍。“没有地方可以寻求支持或帮助，”罗氏说。“大多数开源组织都设在北美。像谷歌、Meta和微软这样的老牌科技公司，以及在那里工作的人，控制着正在发生的事情。他们还领导着指导委员会。你需要为自己的席位提供资金，或者成为维护者或最高贡献者，才能在社区中有影响力。”

The hegemony of North American participants, in turn, can over- shadow
open source projects that originated in other parts of the world.
"Latin American developers and software startups would like to see
more acknowledgment that we exist," said Roche. "Projects in Latin
America are often overlooked. If you actively look for them, there are
communities and companies across the conti- nent, but they sit outside
the core of the open source community."

Reflecting on the Japanese experience, Noriaki Fukuyasu, VP of Japan
Operations at the Linux Foundation, says the pace of innova- tion is
slower than in North America, and enterprise IT managers are less
comfortable with open source. "We have fewer engineers on the user
side driving innovation," said Fukuyasu. "They prefer what they
perceive to be the more stable, proprietary solutions, and their
reticence to experiment is slowing down transformation."

北美参与者的霸权反过来也会掩盖源自世界其他地区的开源项目。罗氏表示：“拉丁美洲的开发者和软件初创公司希望看到更多人承认我们的存在。”。“拉丁美洲的项目常常被忽视。如果你积极寻找它们，整个大陆都有社区和公司，但它们却位于开源社区的核心之外。”

Linux基金会日本运营副总裁Noriaki Fukuyasu在反思日本的经验时表示，创新的步伐比北美慢，企业IT经理对开源不太满意。Fukuyasu表示：“我们在用户端推动创新的工程师更少。”。“他们更喜欢他们认为更稳定、更专有的解决方案，他们对实验的沉默正在减缓转型。”

Even when Japanese enterprises adopt OSS, they
are less likely to contribute their modifications back into the
upstream code. "They use open source, but they tend to modify
locally," said Fukuyasu. "They rarely apply the new patches, even
though the patches and fixes exist." Fukuyasu attributes the dearth of
engagement to the fact that Japanese enterprises outsource much of
their IT manage- ment to external vendors. "They don't see open source
as a core competence and, as a result, the community of open source
devel- opers is quite small relative to the United States."

For the community of open source developers in Japan, it can take time
to adjust to open source norms. "Culturally, people are not
comfortable showing off their thoughts in public forums, online chats,
and mailing lists," said Fukuyasu. "Language is also a big issue. For
example, delaying the translation of project mate- rials when
launching a new project can significantly slow down adoption by the
Japanese community."

即使当日本企业采用OSS时，他们也不太可能将其修改贡献回上游代码。Fukuyasu说：“他们使用开源，但倾向于在本地进行修改。”。“他们很少应用新的修补程序，即使修补程序和修复程序存在。”福冈将缺乏参与归因于日本企业将大部分IT管理外包给外部供应商的事实。“他们不认为开源是一项核心能力，因此，与美国相比，开源开发者的社区相当小。”

对于日本的开放源码开发者社区来说，适应开放源码规范可能需要时间。福亚苏说：“从文化上讲，人们不愿意在公共论坛、在线聊天和邮件列表中炫耀自己的想法。”。“语言也是一个大问题。例如，在启动一个新项目时，推迟项目材料的翻译可能会大大减缓日本社区的采用。”

The building blocks for global inclusion
----------------------------------------
全球包容的基石
----------------------------------------

#### "The scale of the challenge is much larger now because of growing participation." **- JIM ZEMLIN**
#### “由于越来越多的参与，现在挑战的规模要大得多。”**-JIM ZEMLIN**

Creating a more equitable balance of power and promoting global
inclusion are critical to the future of open source, especially its
talent pool. So, what can the open source community do to avoid
fragmentation along regional and cultural fault lines? Key sugges-
tions include championing diversity and inclusion, investing in better
translation, fostering professionalism, educating participants about
open source norms, and using in-person events to build trust.

创造更公平的力量平衡和促进全球包容对于开源的未来至关重要，尤其是对其人才库而言。那么，开源社区可以做些什么来避免地区和文化断层的分裂？关键建议包括倡导多样性和包容性，投资于更好的翻译，培养专业精神，教育参与者了解开源规范，以及利用面对面活动建立信任。

Open source leaders say that policies and practices that foster
diversity and inclusion are vital starting points. "It's not only
about gender," said Alan Clark of SUSE. "Diversity is also about being
aware of the different cultures within our global developer community

and ensuring that community methods are inclusive." Clark says

collaboration is part of the DNA at SUSE and claims that executives
have made efforts to understand and adapt the company's pro- cesses to
the unique cultural dynamics in different regions of the world.
"Diversity is increasingly key to building a strong talent pool. You
can bring in new perspectives and insights. That integration of global
perspectives has made open source more successful."

开源领袖表示，促进多样性和包容性的政策和做法是至关重要的起点。SUSE的艾伦·克拉克（Alan Clark）表示：“这不仅仅关乎性别。”。“多样性也意味着了解我们全球开发者社区中的不同文化，并确保社区方法具有包容性。”克拉克表示，合作是SUSE DNA的一部分，并声称高管们已经努力了解并调整公司的流程，以适应世界不同地区的独特文化动态。“多元化越来越成为建立强大人才库的关键。你可以引入新的观点和见解。这种全球视角的融合使开源更加成功。”

Jim Zemlin of the Linux Foundation argues that open source projects
should also have DEI requirements but that policies alone are
insufficient. "Having a set of collective cultural norms is key," said
Zemlin. "But the scale of the challenge is much larger now because of
growing participation from around the world." Zemlin points out that
social coding platforms can help identify challenges in integrating
diverse participation by measuring the form and nature of
collaboration. "In 2022, project leaders and open source companies can
measure every digital engagement touchpoint. Are there small voices
and loud voices? Are you successfully onboard- ing new developers? How
long does it take for individuals to con- tribute to discussions
actively?"

Linux基金会的Jim Zemlin认为，开源项目也应该有DEI要求，但仅靠政策是不够的。泽姆林说：“有一套集体文化规范是关键。”。Zemlin指出，社交编码平台可以通过衡量协作的形式和性质，帮助识别整合不同参与的挑战。“2022年，项目负责人和开源公司可以衡量每一个数字参与接触点。是否有小的声音和大的声音？您是否成功地加入了新的开发人员？个人需要多长时间才能积极参与讨论？”

Digital engagement data can inform decision-making. Then it's up to
leaders to foster a project ethic and culture that attracts diverse
participants. "What people miss is the aspect of highly skilled
individual leadership," said Zemlin. "You need a technical subject
matter expert with the human qualities to lead. And not just people
but also the companies who are participating. Pulling these diverse
international networks together takes a lot of capability."

An essential task for project leaders is taming the macho "bro"
culture that pervades today's tech world. "We insist on a profes-
sional culture," said Mike Milinkovich of Eclipse. "To increase inclu-
sion, you must focus on professionalism in your dialogue and behavior.
Keeping things professional helps smooth cultural differ- ences around
conflict resolution and project communication."

数字参与的数据可以为决策提供信息。然后由领导者来培养吸引不同参与者的项目伦理准则和文化。泽姆林说：“人们怀念的是高度熟练的个人领导力。”。“你需要一个具有人类素质的技术主题专家来领导。不仅是人，还包括参与其中的公司。将这些多样化的国际网络拉到一起需要很多能力。”

项目领导者的一项基本任务是驯服当今科技界弥漫的男子汉“兄弟”文化。“我们坚持职业文化，”Eclipse的迈克·米林科维奇说。“为了提高包容性，你必须在对话和行为中注重专业性。保持专业性有助于消除冲突解决和项目沟通方面的文化差异。”

#### "Rapid translation is the key to fostering greater engagement." - **NORIYAKI FUKUYASU**

#### “快速翻译是促进更多参与的关键。”-**NORIYAKI FUKUYASU**

At the operational level, open source leaders are also address- ing
language translation challenges. English may be the lingua franca of
the software world, but project leaders outside of North
America insist that translating project communications into native
languages drives broader participation. For example, Ramon Roche of
the DroneCode Foundation claims that translation and language are
genuine barriers in Latin America and has experi- enced the same
challenges in engaging developers from Asia. "Asian communities have
been eager adopters of our open source solutions for drones," said
Roche. "We found that although they were using our software, they were
not contributing very much back. So we hired a bilingual community
manager, and she helped us reach those communities. We translated our
materials into Korean and Chinese and have seen a large influx of new
users." In addition to translating project materials, DroneCode
started using popular messaging tools such as WeChat and then went to
work translating its user interfaces. "Our Chinese membership picked
up significantly once we organized a community to help with the user
interface translation efforts," said Roche. "Companies that used to
clone our work are now active participants."

在运营层面，开源领导者也在应对语言翻译挑战。英语可能是软件世界的通用语言，但北美以外的项目负责人坚持认为，将项目沟通翻译成母语可以促进更广泛的参与。例如，DroneCode基金会的拉蒙·罗什（Ramon Roche）声称，翻译和语言在拉丁美洲是真正的障碍，在吸引来自亚洲的开发人员方面也遇到了同样的挑战。罗氏表示：“亚洲社区一直积极采用我们的无人机开源解决方案。”。“我们发现，虽然他们在使用我们的软件，但他们并没有做出太多贡献。所以我们聘请了一位双语社区经理，她帮助我们接触这些社区。我们将我们的材料翻译成韩语和中文，并看到了大量新用户的涌入。”除了翻译项目材料，DroneCode开始使用微信等流行的消息传递工具，然后开始翻译其用户界面。罗氏表示：“一旦我们组织了一个社区来帮助用户界面翻译工作，我们的中国会员数量就大大增加了。”。“过去克隆我们工作的公司现在是积极的参与者。”

Manual translation is time-consuming and expensive, so open source
leaders see machine translation as the future. Linux Foundation Japan,
for example, is working with Japanese institutes to implement machine
translation systems that will speed up the translations of project
materials and user interfaces. "Rapid trans- lation is the key to
fostering greater engagement," said Noriaki Fukuyasu. "We are working
on it 24/7. The scale of the translation challenge has exceeded what
can be done by human resources."

Fukuyasu and others also argue that the return of in-person events in
the post-COVID-19 era will expand the person-to-person connec- tions
required to solidify trust in the community. "Japanese people are
generally reluctant to contribute until they have had an oppor- tunity
to meet the people they are working with," said Fukuyasu. He explains
that events build trust by allowing developers to establish a rapport
with project maintainers. "COVID-19 put a hold on our Linux Foundation
gatherings, but we are eager to get that going again to foster those
international connections."

人工翻译耗时且昂贵，因此开源领导者将机器翻译视为未来。例如，日本Linux基金会正在与日本研究所合作，实施机器翻译系统，以加快项目材料和用户界面的翻译速度。Noriaki Fukuyasu表示：“快速翻译是培养更大参与度的关键。”。“我们正在全天候工作。翻译挑战的规模已经超过了人力资源所能完成的任务。"

福亚洙和其他人也认为，新冠肺炎后个人活动的回归将扩大巩固社区信任所需的人与人之间的联系。福冈说：“日本人通常不愿意做出贡献，除非他们有机会与他们合作的人见面。”。他解释说，事件通过允许开发人员与项目维护人员建立密切关系来建立信任。“新冠肺炎病毒（COVID-19）暂时阻止了我们的Linux基金会集会，但我们渴望再次推动这一进程，以促进这些国际联系。”

Transcending Techno-Nationalism
===============================
超越技术民族主义
===============================

While global participation in open source is increasing dramat-
ically, the rise of techno-nationalism is pulling in the opposite
direction. The competition for national technological superiority is
such that ecosystem leaders worry that geopolitical tensions could
undermine the international collaboration on which the open source
software community depends.

For decades, technology has driven increased interconnectivity and
global commerce. Yet, today, investments in technology and innovation
are becoming inextricably bound up in geopolitical rivalries. In
short, geopolitical rivals are engaged in an increasingly high-stakes
contest to reign supreme in the technological sectors thought likely
to dominate the 21st century, from robotics and arti- ficial
intelligence (AI) to the industrial Internet and advanced tele-
communications networks.

尽管全球对开源的参与在急剧增加，但技术民族主义的兴起却朝着相反的方向发展。国家技术优势的竞争使得生态系统领导人担心地缘政治紧张可能会破坏开源软件社区所依赖的国际合作。

几十年来，技术推动了互联性和全球商业的增长。然而，今天，技术和创新投资正与地缘政治竞争密不可分。简而言之，地缘政治竞争对手正在进行一场日益激烈的竞争，以在被认为可能主导21世纪的技术领域中占据主导地位，从机器人和人工智能（AI）到工业互联网和先进的远程通信网络。

Alex Capri of the National University of Singapore defines tech-
no-nationalism as "a mercantilist behavior that links a nation's tech
capabilities and enterprise with issues of national security, economic
prosperity, and social stability."(15) This new brand of

techno-nationalism has seen countries worldwide move to restrict the
transfer of critical innovations beyond national borders, believing
that doing so will spur national economic growth and foster domestic
competitive advantages. As a case in point, Capri cites "the steady
progression of export controls on tangible, hard technology, followed
by restrictions on data access and usage, and, most recently, new
controls ... that will impede the free movement and development of
human capital."

新加坡国立大学（National University of Singapore）的亚历克斯·卡普里（Alex Capri）将技术民族主义定义为“将一个国家的技术能力和事业与国家安全、经济繁荣和社会稳定问题联系起来的重商主义行为”（15）。这一新的技术民族主义标志着世界各国开始限制关键创新在国界之外的转移，相信这样做将刺激国家经济增长，并培育国内竞争优势。作为一个例子，卡普里引用了“有形硬技术出口管制的稳步推进，随之而来的是对数据访问和使用的限制，以及最近的新管制……这将阻碍人力资本的自由流动和发展。”

Some public and private sector leaders believe that borderless
technologies will transcend these nationalist tendencies and drive
increased interconnectivity in the years ahead, just as they have in
the two decades prior. For example, at a recent meeting of the World
Economic Forum, Jayraj Nair, chief technology officer of IT

services company Wipro, argued that technology will only acceler- ate
globalization. "As far as technology is concerned, the scaling of AI,
or 5G, or blockchain, any of these technologies will increase the
velocity \[of globalization\]," said Nair. "In fact, the velocity will
only exponentially escalate."(16)

一些公共和私营部门领导人认为，无边界技术将超越这些民族主义倾向，并在未来几年推动互联互通，就像二十年前一样。例如，在世界经济论坛最近的一次会议上，IT服务公司Wipro的首席技术官Jayraj Nair认为，技术只会加速全球化。Nair表示：“就技术而言，人工智能、5G或区块链的规模化，这些技术中的任何一项都将提高全球化的速度。”。“事实上，速度只会呈指数级增长。”（16）

Other observers are less sanguine and forecast a new era of deglo-
balization due to the increased geopolitical tensions and the rise

of protectionist measures deployed by various nations. In 2019, for
example, Beijing took aim at American technology companies by ordering
its government agencies and public institutions to stop using
foreign-made computers and software. More recently, Washington
broadened the scope of the advanced technologies covered by its export
control regulations to include semiconduc- tors. In addition to
stemming the flow of critical technologies, Washington is also
pursuing a worldwide campaign to block the adoption of 5G wireless
technology developed by Chinese telecom giant Huawei.(17) The net effect
of these measures is a decoupling

of strategic rivals from global supply chains, digital platforms, and
knowledge networks.

其他观察人士则不那么乐观，他们预测，由于地缘政治紧张局势加剧，以及各国采取的保护主义措施增多，将进入一个新的去极端化时代。例如，2019年，北京命令其政府机构和公共机构停止使用外国制造的计算机和软件，以此打击美国科技公司。最近，华盛顿扩大了其出口管制条例所涵盖的先进技术的范围，将半导体制造商包括在内。除了阻止关键技术的流动，华盛顿还在全球范围内开展运动，阻止采用中国电信巨头华为开发的5G无线技术（17）。这些措施的净效果是战略竞争对手与全球供应链、数字平台和知识网络脱钩。

Will techno-nationalism balkanize open source?
----------------------------------------------
技术民族主义会阻碍开源事业吗？
----------------------------------------------

How will techno-nationalism impact collaborative, knowledge-in-
tensive activities such as the creation of OSS? Consultations for this
study revealed a spectrum of opinions. On one end of the spectrum are
those who think that techno-nationalism is fundamentally changing how
global innovation networks operate by inserting political
considerations into otherwise technical decisions about who
participates, on what terms, and to what ends. Several indi- viduals
consulted for the study pointed to concrete examples in which
geopolitical tensions resulted in national or regional silos.

Others see techno-nationalism as more of a looming threat than a real
obstacle to open source collaboration at present. All agreed, however,
that techno-nationalism poses a danger to global cooper- ation and
that open source communities should commit to politi- cal neutrality.

技术民族主义将如何影响诸如开源软件的创建等知识紧张的合作性活动？这项研究的咨询揭示了一系列意见。另一方面，有人认为技术民族主义正在从根本上改变全球创新网络的运作方式，将政治因素纳入到其他技术决策中，比如谁参与、参与的条件和目的。为研究咨询的几个个人指出了地缘政治紧张导致国家或地区孤立的具体例子。

其他人则认为，技术民族主义更多地是一种迫在眉睫的威胁，而不是目前开源合作的真正障碍。然而，所有人都同意，技术民族主义对全球合作构成危险，开源社区应致力于政治中立。

"Code review in OSS is about improving the code quality and building
trust between developers," said Han Xiao, the Berlin-based founder of
Jina AI, a commercial OSS company. "Adding politics

to the code review will hurt both and eventually roll back the open
source movement in China."(18) Xiao identified the creation of Gitee, a
state-backed Chinese competitor to the international code repository
platform GitHub, as a clear sign of nationalist

prerogatives trumping the open source community's predilection for
unencumbered global collaboration. Gitee has become a backup plan of
sorts for Chinese organizations concerned the U.S. might someday
change its laws in an attempt to exclude Chinese participants from
open source codebases. That is a highly unlikely scenario, given that
open source is publicly available and that it is impossible to block
any one country's access, but it has factored into backup plans.

“OSS中的代码审查是为了提高代码质量，建立开发者之间的信任，”商业OSS公司Jina AI的创始人肖涵（Han Xiao）表示。“在代码审查中加入政治因素将损害这两者，并最终使中国的开源运动倒退。”（18）肖认为，国家支持的中国国际代码库平台GitHub的竞争对手Gitee的创建，是民族主义特权战胜开源社区偏好无阻碍全球合作的明显标志。Gitee已经成为一些中国组织的备份计划，他们担心美国有朝一日可能会改变法律，试图将中国参与者排除在开源代码库之外。鉴于开源是公开的，不可能阻止任何一个国家的访问，但这已经成为备份计划的一部分，这是极不可能的情况。

#### "Geopolitical conflicts and tensions are fragmenting the open source community around national interests."
#### “地缘政治冲突和紧张局势正在围绕国家利益分裂开源社区。” 

Rebecca Arcesati, an analyst at the Mercator Institute for China
Studies, also sees Gitee and similar homegrown Chinese alter- natives
to foreign-owned platforms as part of a broader attempt by the Chinese
government to lessen the country's reliance on American tech giants
and insulate the domestic open source com- munity from risks arising
from geopolitical tensions. Arcesati argues most Chinese developers
don't want to be cut off from global open source networks and are
circumspect about China's direction. "The more Beijing tries to
nationalize open source and create an indigenous ecosystem, the less
eager developers will be

to participate in what they perceive to be government-led open source
projects," said Arcesati.(19)

墨卡托中国研究所（Mercator Institute for China Studies）的分析师丽贝卡·阿尔塞蒂（Rebecca Arcesati）也认为，Gitee和类似的中国土生土长的外资平台是中国政府更广泛努力的一部分，目的是减少该国对美国科技巨头的依赖，并使国内开源社区免受地缘政治紧张局势带来的风险。Arcesati认为，大多数中国开发者不想与全球开源网络隔绝，对中国的发展方向持谨慎态度。Arcesati表示：“北京方面越是试图将开源国有化，创建本土生态系统，开发商就越不愿意参与他们认为是政府主导的开源项目。”。(19)

Peixin Hou, chief software architect and community director for Open
Source of Huawei, is another of those who see evidence that
geopolitical conflicts and tensions are fragmenting the open source
community around national interests. He says Chinese users and
developers of OSS are concerned that the U.S. government might expand
its trade restrictions into the open source world, which would be
harmful to both sides and eventually undermine collabo- rative
innovation between nations.

Hou and others voiced concerns that forks could emerge in key software
platforms to enable national economies to control aspects of the
technology domestically. And then there is the risk that
techno-nationalism could diminish the global open source talent pool.
"Developers in China have concerns," said Hou. "Will contributors from
certain countries be discriminated against when they participate in
open source projects? Could concerns about national security lead
developers to reduce their participation

if geopolitical tensions escalate further?" Hou worries that tech-
no-nationalism runs the risk of excluding a significant source of
talent and ingenuity. "The trust between developers and open source
communities has traditionally depended upon the contri- butions of
individual developers instead of his or her country of origin or
organizational affiliation, but is this going to change?" asks Hou.

华为开源首席软件架构师兼社区总监侯培新是另一位看到地缘政治冲突和紧张局势正在围绕国家利益分裂开源社区的人。他表示，OSS的中国用户和开发者担心美国政府可能会将其贸易限制扩大到开源世界，这将对双方都有害，并最终破坏国家间的合作创新。

侯和其他人表示担心，关键软件可能会出现分叉, 从而使国家经济能够在国内控制技术的各个方面。此外，还有技术民族主义可能会削弱全球开源人才库的风险。“中国的开发商有担忧，”侯说。“当某些国家的贡献者参与开源项目时，他们会受到歧视吗？对国家安全的担忧会导致开发者减少他们的参与吗？如果地缘政治紧张局势进一步升级？”侯担心，技术民族主义可能会排除一个重要的人才和创造力来源。“开发人员和开源社区之间的信任传统上取决于单个开发人员的贡献，而不是其原籍国或组织从属关系，但这会改变吗？”侯问。

The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine has also raised alarm
bells for some open source projects. Ramon Roche of the DroneCode
Foundation says the war in Ukraine has changed everything. "Drones are
being widely deployed in the conflict," said Roche, "and that brings
the security and safety of the supply chains into critical focus."
Roche says the U.S. and European coun- tries only want drones
developed by trusted manufacturers. "They also want to ensure that
foreign entities are not embedding mali- cious code in the open source
systems for the drones."
俄罗斯和乌克兰之间持续的冲突也给一些开源项目敲响了警钟。DroneCode基金会的拉蒙·罗什表示，乌克兰战争改变了一切。“无人机在冲突中被广泛部署，”罗什表示，“这将供应链的安全和保障纳入了至关重要的重点。”罗什表示美国和欧洲国家只希望无人机由值得信赖的制造商开发。“他们还希望确保外国实体不会在无人机的开源系统中嵌入恶意代码。”

#### "Europeans see open source as an opportunity to enhance digital autonomy and sovereignty and lessen their dependence on US tech giants." **- ASTOR NUMMELIN-CARLBERG**
#### “欧洲人将开源视为增强数字自主性和主权、减少对美国科技巨头依赖的机会。”**-ASTOR NUMMELIN-CARLBERG**

For years, the DroneCode Foundation worked closely with Chinese
developers. As of now, Roche says end users from certain regions can't
use software or hardware developed by Chinese compa- nies. "We want
open collaboration," said Roche. "We don't want to exclude any
developers. They can make valuable contributions, and they can be
totally innocuous. Unfortunately, we also have a big Russian community
that has completely stopped contributing. We don't even talk now. We
had active contributors. We had com- panies doing research and
development in the drone space. They are now completely out of the
loop."

多年来，DroneCode基金会与中国开发者密切合作。到目前为止，罗什表示，某些地区的终端用户不能使用中国公司开发的软件或硬件。罗什表示：“我们希望开放合作。”。“我们不想排斥任何开发者。他们可以做出有价值的贡献，而且可以是完全无害的。不幸的是，我们还有一个俄罗斯大社区，已经完全停止了贡献。我们现在甚至都不谈。我们有积极的贡献者。我们有一些公司在无人机领域进行研究和开发。他们现在完全脱离了圈子。”

Astor Nummelin Carlberg of OpenForum Europe claims techno-na-
tionalism is also rearing its head in Europe. "The issue of exclud-
ing companies and other participants from standards bodies

and open source projects based on nationality has become quite
contentious," said Carlberg. He notes that there have been cases where
European companies have been unwilling to participate in international
open source projects in which Chinese compa- nies are also present
because of the perceived legal uncertain-

ties and the risk of a policy backlash at home. At the same time, he
sees European policymakers attempting to insert national objec- tives
into open source projects. "Europeans see open source as

an opportunity to enhance digital autonomy and sovereignty and lessen
their dependence on U.S. tech giants," said Carlberg. As a result,
"European countries often push for greater European par- ticipation in
standards bodies, and there are discussions around the creation of
uniquely open source projects and foundations."

OpenForum Europe的Astor Nummelin Carlberg声称，技术民族主义也在欧洲抬头。卡尔伯格说：“将公司和其他参与者排除在标准机构和基于国籍的开源项目之外的问题已经变得非常有争议。”。他指出，由于法律上的不确定性和国内政策反弹的风险，欧洲公司一直不愿参与中国公司参与的国际开源项目。与此同时，他看到欧洲决策者试图将国家目标纳入开源项目。卡尔伯格表示：“欧洲人将开源视为增强数字自主性和主权、减少对美国科技巨头依赖的机会。”。因此，“欧洲国家经常推动欧洲在标准机构中的参与，并围绕创建独特的开源项目和基金会展开讨论。”

Tackling techno-nationalism with transparency and trust
-------------------------------------------------------
以透明度和信任应对技术民族主义
-------------------------------------------------------

Despite widespread concerns, there is considerable confidence among
open source leaders that transparent open source protocols can help
the community transcend techno-nationalist tendencies.

Alan Clark of SUSE says he sees the risks of techno-nationalism. "It's
hard to counter it," he said. "However, the solution is to be open.
You can alleviate many concerns about the subversion of code to
national interests or other agendas by being open and transparent with
your communications and recording all your decisions and how you
arrived at those decisions. We need OSS development to transcend
national interests. Otherwise, we risk real fragmentation."

尽管存在广泛的担忧，但开源领袖们仍有相当大的信心，认为透明的开源协议可以帮助社区超越技术民族主义倾向。

SUSE的艾伦·克拉克表示，他看到了技术民族主义的风险。“很难对抗，”他说。“然而，解决方案是开放的。你可以通过公开透明的沟通和记录你的所有决定以及你如何做出这些决定，来缓解人们对代码颠覆国家利益或其他议程的担忧。我们需要开源软件的开发，以超越国家利益。否则，我们面临真正的分裂风险。”

Chris Aniszczyk, chief technology officer of the Linux Foundation,
notes that mature OSPOs are increasingly helping their organi- zations
navigate project politics and overcome any proclivities toward
techno-nationalism. Aniszczyk argues that OSPOs can help organizations
"understand and navigate project politics, such as maintaining a
neutral stance when multiple influential actors are attempting to
steer a project or illuminating the latent political considerations of
community members." He suggests that "OSPOs can help companies
maintain a neutral posture on techno-nation- alism and bridge
political differences by cultivating personal and working
relationships that transcend national boundaries and political realms.
Increasingly, this value extends to the work of foundations and
nonprofits, as those realms become important neutral spaces in open
source."(20)

Linux基金会首席技术官Chris Aniszczyk指出，成熟的OSPO越来越多地帮助他们的组织驾驭项目政治，克服任何技术民族主义倾向。Aniszczyk认为，外包服务提供商可以帮助组织“理解和驾驭项目政治，例如在多个有影响力的参与者试图指导项目时保持中立立场，或阐明社区成员潜在的政治考虑。”

通过培养超越国界和政治领域的个人和工作关系，实现政治差异。随着这些领域成为开源中重要的中立空间，这种价值越来越多地延伸到基金会和非营利组织的工作中。"(20)

#### "The open source community is a great stage for track two diplomacy." **- ROD BECKSTROM**
#### “开源社区是第二轨道外交的绝佳舞台。”**-ROD BECKSTROM**

Ramon Roche of the DroneCode Foundation agrees that transpar- ent
protocols are the key to ensuring that open source projects operate
without geopolitical tensions influencing how and when they engage
with talented developers**.** "If your infrastructure is secure, and
you have robust processes for testing and deploying new software, then
you can trust the source code no matter where it comes from," said
Roche.

DroneCode基金会的拉蒙·罗什（Ramon Roche）同意，透明协议是确保开源项目在不受地缘政治紧张局势影响的情况下运行的关键。“如果您的基础设施是安全的，并且您拥有测试和部署新软件的强大流程，那么无论源代码来自何处，您都可以信任源代码。”罗什说。

Rod Beckstrom goes even further, suggesting that open source
communities could provide informal bridges to help reconcile geo-
political tensions. "Look at science and its rapid progression on so
many fronts," said Beckstrom. "The progress continues despite the
politics and the tensions between the U.S. and China." He expects open
source will follow a similar trajectory to other scientific dis-
ciplines. "In fact, the open source community is a great stage for
track two diplomacy," said Beckstrom. "We need to build mutual trust
and respect. Open source collaboration provides an opportu- nity for
informal networking and relationship building."

In the end, open source leaders agree that countries that close off
collaboration at national borders will be less successful than those
that embrace global cooperation and its benefits. "Fragmentation due
to techno-nationalist imperatives is inherently misguided," said Jim
Zemlin. "Policymakers are the ones creating these tensions. Many don't
even realize that they are giving up the good stuff because of a lack
of trust, including faster times to market and the ability to leverage
a much larger developer community."

罗德·贝克斯特罗姆（Rod Beckstrom）更进一步，他建议开源社区可以提供非正式的桥梁，帮助调和地缘政治紧张局势。贝克斯特罗姆说：“看看科学及其在许多方面的快速发展。”。“尽管美国和中国之间存在政治和紧张关系，但进展仍在继续。”他预计开源将遵循与其他科学学科类似的轨迹。贝克斯特罗姆说：“事实上，开源社区是第二轨道外交的绝佳舞台。”。“我们需要建立互信和尊重。开源协作为非正式网络和建立关系提供了机会。”

最终，开源领导人一致认为，在国家边界上关闭合作的国家将比那些接受全球合作及其利益的国家更不成功。吉姆·泽姆林（Jim Zemlin）表示：“由于技术民族主义的要求而导致的分裂本质上是错误的。”。“政策制定者是制造这些紧张局势的人。许多人甚至没有意识到，由于缺乏信任，他们正在放弃好东西，包括更快的上市时间和利用更大的开发商社区的能力。”
