
Breaking Down the Governance Silos
==================================

Most of the early open source projects, including Linux and Apache,
grew out of the voluntary efforts of a small but dispersed group of
individuals. As the projects gained commercial traction, concerned
stakeholders came together to create nonprofit orga- nizations that
could provide the legal and economic infrastructure for ongoing
community collaboration and make projects such as Linux less dependent
on the individuals who initiated them. The resulting OSS foundations,
including the Linux Foundation, the Apache Software Foundation, and
others, are now integral to the open source ecosystem.

The creation of new open source projects has seen a commensurate
increase in the number of new foundations. Javier Cánovas of the
Universitat Oberta de Catalunya recently led an empirical study of
open source foundations and found over 100 active entities across a
wide range of open source projects.21 As Cánovas observes:

#### "The survival of an OSS project largely depends on its ability to retain developers, onboard new ones (i.e., newcomers), and create a community of users who promote its adoption and use. As these

#### projects grow, developers tend to organize and build communities. Still, many lack formal governance models to structure and manage the (potentially large) community around them (and the challenges this implies). Support to deal with all kinds of organizational decisions (including legal and economic aspects)

#### is a huge concern for all projects at this stage."

While mandates vary from organization to organization, foun- dations
typically set the stage for collaboration on open source projects. The
roles include building tools and processes to

enable collaborative development, hosting a structured gover- nance
process for steering the evolution of open source projects, handling
legal issues (particularly around intellectual property licensing,
trademarks, and patents), and engaging with policymak- ers and
regulators. Many foundations also play a role in educa- tion,
training, and marketing. Across these domains, foundations provide a
legal entity to hire staff and raise funds to pay for activi- ties
that benefit the community.

The sheer number of foundations identified in
[Cánovas](https://livablesoftware.com/author/jlcanovas/)' empiri- cal
study raises a question as to whether the governance of OSS is now too
diffuse to enable sufficient progress on the challenges

facing the community. For example, has the proliferation of founda-
tions created a crowded field that could ultimately impede efforts to
develop global standards, address security vulnerabilities,

and promote the adoption of open source solutions? And does a crowded
field make it more difficult for interested stakeholders to determine
how and where to allocate their time and resources?

Several open source leaders consulted for the study agreed that the
proliferation of open source foundations and projects has become
problematic. They worry, for example, that the flurry of new open
source projects and associations for narrow verticals will pull key
stakeholders in too many directions. As one inter- viewee put it,
"Quite frankly, none of the participants has a clue how to do open
source. It is disconcerting. The probability of success is very low.
Their scope is too narrowly focused. They don't understand that open
source is a unique discipline they don't have the skills to master."

The proliferation of new foundations has already led some enter-
prises to be more selective about how and where they engage. For
example, Deborah Bryant, formerly of Red Hat, notes that her OSPO was
spending more time re-evaluating the firm's

![](media/image64.png)participation in software foundations on a
regular cadence to "ensure that \[Red Hat was\] getting a return on
its investment."22

#### "As vendors, we must determine which foundations and projects our customers care about. It's time consuming." **- ALAN CLARKE**

Meanwhile, Alan Clarke of SUSE acknowledges that foundations are
businesses and that they ultimately compete for members and

revenues. But the imperative to increase memberships and revenues by
launching new projects creates what he and others describe as "vendor
fatigue" and "engagement overload." "Foundations create projects to
address the sexy spaces in hopes that doing so will boost memberships
and revenues," said Clark. "The result may be multiple different
approaches to the same problem, and you get fragmented solutions.
Then, as vendors, we must determine which founda-

tions and projects our customers care about. Which projects will
address the real market needs, and which will be successful? It's
time-consuming."

Nevertheless, some argued that creating new OSS foundations is
justified if they can mobilize more efficiently and effectively to

address narrower mandates defined by specific industries, regions, and
application spaces. "Policymakers realize that open source is

a vital part of the innovation economy," said Mike Milinkovich of the
Eclipse Foundation. "To protect the future prosperity of their
citizens, they need to understand and participate in open source.
Inevitably there will be verticals and jurisdictions where stakehold-
ers take solace from working with organizations that speak their
language and have similar norms and legal frameworks."

Until recently, most of the OSS foundations were California-based
organizations. However, as open source becomes increasingly global,
many ecosystem leaders concede that the present and future gov-
ernance of open source communities can't be located solely in
California. "Sometimes you need specialized expertise or capabilities

to address the needs of a particular vertical or region," said Jim
Zemlin of the Linux Foundation. "For example, the E.U. is working on
technology sovereignty and seeking to harness open source to lessen
the influence of U.S. tech giants. If you want to access E.U. grant
funding to contribute to relevant projects, you need European experts,
and your organization must also be incorporated in the E.U." To that
end, the Linux Foundation launched a European branch

(Linux Foundation Europe) in September 2022 to strengthen its part-
nerships with European constituencies and provide an on-ramp for
European projects and companies seeking to harness open source
solutions in the public and private sectors.23

In this sense, Milinkovich and Zemlin agree that one could inter- pret
the creation of regional associations as a sign of success rather than
a failure of global collaboration. They point to China, which is on
the record as wanting to be an influential player in open source with
its own associations and projects. "The European Commission may do the
same," said Milinkovich. "These regional associations may be
unsuccessful, but hopefully give rise to a com- petition of ideas."

#### "All stakeholders consulted for the study agree that improved collaboration between open source foundations is required to address the ecosystem's challenges."

Whatever their feelings on the proliferation of new foundations and
initiatives, all stakeholders consulted for the study agree that
improved collaboration between open source foundations is required to
address the ecosystem's challenges. Indeed, with

modern tools, open source leaders see few excuses for not working
together to address issues of shared concern. "The foundations should
be insisting on open and broad collaboration to limit the duplication
of effort," said Alan Clark of SUSE. "We need to find a way to align
the projects. In fact, the projects themselves need to follow open
source methods. The design and development pro- cesses should be
transparent. The meetings and records should be open. The discussions
and decision-making should be well docu- mented. In other words, the
initiatives that foundations lead should be truly open source
projects," said Clark.

Mike Dolan of the Linux Foundation also sees an opportunity for larger
open source foundations to provide an umbrella for

smaller projects, reducing overlap and economizing on overhead and
other resources. "We might launch five projects in a quarter. GitHub
is launching 5,000 new projects a day," said Dolan. The challenge is
that each has a unique set of stakeholders who

want a neutral, growing project that enables new cost savings or
market opportunities---and they want to work on them together.
Foundations enable them to work together in a structured way. Dolan
argues that it is difficult in many instances to curtail the creation
of new projects. However, he sees a role for foundations in helping to
align efforts and streamline operations. "This innova- tion is
happening with or without us," said Dolan, "so what we're trying to do
is to concentrate on a few projects that matter and provide an
umbrella structure for projects with shared objectives to come
together."

 Maintaining critical open source infrastructure
-----------------------------------------------

One area urgently calling for increased collaboration is securing and
safeguarding the vast patchwork of critical open source com- ponents.
Decentralized innovation has produced a remarkable tapestry of open
source components, and their deployment have widely supported the
digital economy. However, maintaining

the disparate components is a complex challenge that requires a
transparent and coordinated approach and more significant funding and
resources from organizations that draw value from open source
infrastructure.

Cybercriminals and other malevolent networks are ramping up their
attacks, making cybersecurity essential to safeguarding the global
economy and defending critical infrastructure. As a result, industries
and governments have invested considerable sums

in correcting the frequent security issues plaguing proprietary
software. However, the recent Log4Shell software vulnerabili- ties
highlight the need for a commensurate effort to protect open source
tools, which are just as critical and often more ubiquitous than their
proprietary counterparts.

Open source components are embedded in numerous pieces of critical
infrastructure that provide the underpinnings for global commerce,
from power grids, shipping, and transportation to electronic commerce
and finance. Understanding which compo- nents are most widely used and
most vulnerable to exploitation is crucial for the continued health of
the open source ecosystem

and the broader digital economy. As Jim Zemlin, executive director of
the Linux Foundation, explains, "Hundreds of thousands of OSS packages
are in production applications throughout the supply chain.
Understanding what we need to be assessing for vulnera- bilities is
the first step for ensuring long-term security and sus- tainability of
OSS."24 However, as the Laboratory for Innovation Science at Harvard
points out, "it is difficult to fully understand the health and
security of OSS because 1) OSS, by design, is distrib- uted in nature,
so there is no central authority to ensure quality

![](media/image66.png)

and maintenance, and 2) because OSS can be freely copied and modified,
it is unclear how much OSS, and precisely what types of OSS, are most
widely used."25

Tracking the proliferation of OSS and monitoring potential vulnera-
bilities are complex tasks. Just as vexing, however, is the challenge
of maintaining the vast number of critical OSS components in use
today. As Kent Walker, Alphabet's president of global affairs, points
out, "\[In most cases\] there's no official resource allocation and
few formal requirements or standards for maintaining the security of
critical open source code."26 While high-profile projects, such as
Linux, have active communities and receive regular attention, other
projects are infrequently updated and have few watchers.

"Open source infrastructure is the classic small pieces, loosely
joined with lots of independent components developed by small
maintainers who are not necessarily compensated for their work," said
Mark Surman. As the ecosystem addresses its sustainabil-

ity challenges, Surman advises, "It is vital to remember that open
source is a tremendous accelerator of innovation and the digital
economy. It's not realistic to consolidate it all. So how can we
ensure longevity? Are there ways to compensate those maintain- ers?
Could we have a Patreon for open source components?"

In the absence of a distributed compensation and resourcing model,
organizations such as the newly created Open Source Security
Foundation (OpenSSF) will play a vital role in identifying critical
com- ponents, assessing vulnerabilities, and establishing new commu-
nity-based processes and standards for regular maintenance and
testing. "The OpenSSF is an industry effort with a roving SWAT team,"
said Jim Zemlin. "They will identify the abandoned projects and then
shore them up. The scorecard and SLSA frameworks we are working on are
key to this. We can use these frameworks to identify the vulnerable
components, including all the dependencies in the ecosystem, and then
target resources to those unsupported or under-resourced areas."

#### "Many leaders consulted for the study would also like to see large enterprises and other significant beneficiaries pitching in to help sustain a thriving open source ecosystem."

In 2022, DARPA, the U.S. military's research arm, weighed in on the
matter with a multi-million-dollar effort, over 18 months, to help
identify malicious actors and prevent them from corrupting critical
open source infrastructure. DARPA notes that much of the U.S.
Department of Defense's computing infrastructure rests on a foun-
dation of OSS. DARPA's so-called "Social Cyber" program will harness
AI "to detect and counteract any malicious campaigns to submit flawed
code, launch influence operations, sabotage development, or even take
control of open-source projects." Part of the effort involves scouring
through millions of lines of code to detect vulnerabilities.

DARPA will also analyze social interactions on mailing lists and other
forums to gain insight into the community of software developers who
write, fix, implement, and influence that code. DARPA hopes that
sentiment analysis deployed at scale will allow researchers to
identify trustworthy contributors and the individuals and groups that
justify extra vigilance.27 However, the countereffect is that devel-
opers and open source advocates see any government monitoring as
potentially harmful and intrusive. Programs like this could lead

to backlash from the same project communities that governments intend
to support.

Stormy Peters says GitHub is also trying to make it easier for devel-
opers to make their software more secure by providing a free and open
database of vulnerability information and enabling private vul-
nerability reporting. However, many leaders consulted for the study
would also like to see large enterprises and other significant benefi-
ciaries pitching in to help sustain a thriving open source ecosystem.

"Technology consumers, especially the enterprises, have had a free
ride for far too long," said Mike Milinkovich of Eclipse. "Some
vendors include open source components in the products they use, yet
enterprises rarely give anything back to the communities

they rely upon for their application development. The sustainabil- ity
problems are related to the lack of money and resources to do all the
things that must be done." Peters agrees that the absence of funding
for small project maintainers is a problem and notes that GitHub is
also working on tools to help companies contribute finan- cial
resources to maintaining critical infrastructure components.

Milinkovich, Zemlin, Peters, and others claim that software vendors
and enterprise users have received the memo that they need to engage
in the communities from which they are drawing benefits. "It is time
to recalibrate their engagement in light of where they get the code
and what they need to do to ensure the code is properly main- tained
and sustainable," said Milinkovich. "In the end, there is no free
lunch." Zemlin points to Google (one of Alphabet's subsidiaries) as
one of several good enterprise stewards that have stepped up to help
make code libraries bulletproof.

In 2020, for example, more than 10% of Alphabet's full-time employ-
ees (approximately 15,000) actively contributed to open source
projects.28 In addition to managing its own open source code repos-
itories, Alphabet employees contribute to a vast pool of external
projects and actively participate in boosting the security and sus-
tainability of open source and its supply chain. In a significant sign
of progress, hundreds of prominent enterprise and consumer tech-
nology firms, ranging from Amazon to VMware, have established OSPOs
and dedicate comparable proportions of their workforce to developing
and maintaining open source projects.29

Ultimately, Zemlin and others would prefer that the ecosystem address
the sustainability challenge publicly, transparently, and
collaboratively. "The complexity of the modern supply chain is such
that we need a transparent and coordinated approach," said Zemlin. "We
need coordinated disclosure of potential vulnerabili- ties. We need
free training for maintainers of critical projects. We need regular
auditing of specific projects. And in some cases, we need to augment
the talent pool available to do the heavy lifting on maintaining
critical components."

[]{#_bookmark20 .anchor}With so much at stake, Rod Beckstrom
crystallizes the sense of urgency to act. "Global reliability is key,"
said Beckstrom, who spent much of his time as CEO of ICANN and
director of the National Cybersecurity Center wrestling with the
thorny issues of Internet governance and cybersecurity. "The market
has to step in. Operation Global Blackout from Anonymous was a
credible threat. The system is vulnerable, and we need to look closely
at the central points of failure. That said, I don't worry too much
about the open source systems. The ecosystem is rife with shep- herds
and custodians. Open source has added tremendous value to human life.
Some people will try to break it. Those efforts will likely fail.
Bottom-up will win."

Increasing collaboration on technology policy and regulation
------------------------------------------------------------

#### "The foundations would be much stronger if they worked together." **- ALAN CLARKE**

![](media/image68.png)

Beyond cybersecurity, open source leaders consulted for the study
point to a host of other Internet policy issues on which they argue
there could be improved collaboration. For example, in critical
matters such as intellectual property, privacy, and anti- trust, there
is a widely shared view that the open source commu- nity has not been
as influential or assertive in technology policy dialogues as it
should.

"Educating politicians can be an uphill battle," said Rod Beckstrom.
"They don't always understand the complexities and nuances of Internet
infrastructure and the related policy issues. But there is no shortage
of critical policy issues where the open source view is needed,
including patent issues, privacy, cybersecurity, antitrust, and
beneficial AI."

The absence of a coordinated open source response to such issues has
left the playing field open to domination by larger,

better-resourced entities. "The big tech players with deep pockets and
teams of lobbyists have tended to dominate the policy and regulatory
conversations," said Alan Clark of SUSE. Clark says the open source
community has been reactive rather than active on most policy issues.
He and others would like to see open source foundations come together
to propose new policies around security, transparency, privacy, and
other pertinent matters. "The foundations would be much stronger if
they worked together," said Clark. "The open source point of view is
especially relevant today. We need an open source approach to solving
global problems."

Mike Milinkovich of Eclipse calls the relative absence of open source
foundations in crucial policy debates a "sin of omission." "We are not
a set of stakeholders that policymakers and politicians are accustomed
to dealing with." However, Milinkovich also concedes

that the current state of collaboration among open source foun-
dations is "abysmal and almost non-existent." "Just looking after our
own communities is hard enough," said Milinkovich. "Engaging with our
peers is difficult. We don't have a good venue to do it. We also
compete for members and projects. The bottom line is that we need to
grow up and collaborate."

#### "We need a repeatale and trustable process that achieves public policy goals through open source innovation." **- GABRIELE COLUMBRO**

Jim Zemlin agrees that the foundations don't have a stellar track
record of collaboration. However, he points out that open source is on
the radar in the wake of the Log4Shell vulnerabilities. "Going
forward, we have an opportunity to be much more influential in guiding
the evolution of the Internet," said Zemlin. Mike Dolan adds that much
of the behind-the-scenes work the Linux Foundation does may not be
visible because it is not set up or resourced to

be a full-time government education organization. "We do not have
government education staff sitting full time in Washington, or
Brussels, or Beijing, or Tokyo," said Dolan, "but we are here to
protect the ability of open source communities to collaborate and
thrive. We channel our members, brands, and capabilities into those
efforts. I think it's been quite effective. Open source com- munities
have been active since 1990, and, in that time, there has been no
policy that killed open source. The reality is that we have big
defenders. Microsoft, IBM, Red Hat, Google, Oracle, Intel, and others
are equipped to stand up to the U.S. government if they try to do
something that threatens the open source collaboration underpinning
multi-billion dollar businesses they can't just walk away from."

Beckstrom argues that the open source community could increase its
policy influence through lightweight coordination. "Convene a regular
meeting circle of top foundation leaders," said Beckstrom. "Create a
dialogue among the leaders, and identify the shared issues on which
the ecosystem could collectively assert its voice. Then create a
circle of the chief legal counsels. There could be a benefit from
further collaboration between the policy leads."

Astor Nummelin Carlberg of OpenForum Europe notes that there are
challenges on the governmental side as well. "In Europe,

we work with the European Commission around issues ranging from
product safety to cybersecurity to privacy," said Carlberg. "However,
many policies and regulations in those domains are still driven by
national bodies. It requires a lot of resources and staffing to
participate in policy deliberations across so many individual
nation-states." Carlberg argues that creating OSPOs at the national
level could provide an interface for discussions around policy and
regulation and notes that France has built one and Germany is

in the process of doing so. "We won't have a coherent voice if we work
company-by-company and foundation-by-foundation."

More broadly, there is a global opportunity for the OSS community to
position itself as a rich source of solutions for public policy
issues. "The biggest frontier for open source is in the public
sphere," said Gabriele Columbro of FINOS and Linux Foundation Europe.
"The Linux Foundation has perfected its governance models for enabling
collaboration with corporations and individuals. We need a similar
model and pattern of engagement with the public sector." Columbro
points to digital public services, healthcare, education, and climate
change as significant opportunity spaces for open source solutions.
"We need a repeatable and trustable process that achieves public
policy goals through open source innovation."