

Conclusion
==========

In its purest form, OSS development is a way of producing software
that relies entirely on self-organizing communities of individuals who
come together voluntarily to work on a software project. However, most
successful OSS communities mix elements of hierarchy and
self-organization and rely on meritocratic principles of organiza-
tion. In other words, the most skilled and experienced community
members provide leadership and help integrate contributions from the
community.

This combination of decentralized innovation and effective leader-
ship is integral to the long-term viability and success of open source
projects. As Professor Christopher Yoo put it, "Success of an open
source project depends on inspiring a community of people willing to
work on it. In a real sense, an open source leader's authority depends
on the existence of followers. In a world where all contri- butions
are voluntary, and the community is always free to exit the community
by forking the project, leaders' ability to retain their positions
depends largely on their responsiveness to the needs of those led.
These needs include providing fast feedback, serving as an effective
moderator of technical disputes and personality con- flicts, and
realistic interim and long-term goals."30

The Linux ecosystem provides an excellent example of how leader- ship
and strong governance can reduce fragmentation. In the early days of
Linux, Linus Torvalds' role as the project leader was instru- mental
in averting the risk of fragmentation and project forking.

Torvalds' status as Linux's creator made him the natural person to
exercise authority over the community. When required, Torvalds did not
hesitate to take action to prevent significant forks from emerging.
However, he bolstered his authority by taking great care to document
and justify his decisions. His dedication and sound judgment in
managing the community fostered considerable goodwill, as did his deft
touch in handling community politics and interpersonal dynamics.
Ultimately, that transparency also enabled

Linus to delegate decision-making for the codebase to core main-
tainers, who have over decades grown to be the core engine of con-
tribution to and maintenance of the modern Linux kernel.

As Professor Yoo concludes, "To say that open source projects require
a type of leadership that is somewhat different from the leadership
that characterizes commercial companies that produce proprietary
software is not to say that they need no leadership at all. On the
contrary, ensuring that an open source platform does not fragment
depends on the presence of an actor with sufficient authority to
resolve disputes and to steer the platform in a beneficial
direction."31

In discussions for the study, open source leaders offered several
additional concrete recommendations to address some of the pain points
described in this report. We divide the recommendations into two broad
categories: a) managing fragmentation in the devel- opment and
governance of open source solutions and b) confront- ing
techno-nationalism and fostering global inclusion.

Managing fragmentation
----------------------

The recommendations for managing fragmentation in the develop- ment
and governance of open source solutions include forging greater
alignment between open source projects, strengthening inter-foun-
dation collaboration, and harnessing open source maturity models to
help identify robust code libraries and components.

##### HARNESS MATURITY MODELS

While open source leaders acknowledge some fragmentation- related
challenges, they warn that "solving" the fragmentation problem risks
killing the goose that laid the golden egg. "When people perceive
fragmentation, they often look at it from a consumer point of view,"
said Mike Milinkovich of the Eclipse

##### ENLIST SKILLED COMMUNITY MANAGERS

![](media/image70.png)

Foundation. "They see a broad landscape of possible solutions and
wonder what is safe, what is supported, and what is sustainable."
Rather than "solving fragmentation," Milinkovich and others suggest
that an open source maturity model would make it easier to identify
robust code libraries and components and thus focus the community's
efforts. As Mike Dolan put it, "The proliferation of open source
projects is not necessarily bad. It just means that there are many
options out there. It also means that we need better filters to make
it easy for developers and end users to discover the little modules
that do things that are useful for them."

If effective leadership is integral to successful open source
projects, then skilled community managers are the foot soldiers for
building high-performing collaboration networks.

Unfortunately, in a world dominated by proprietary technologies, few
people understand how to create and grow an open source ecosystem.
However, Calista Redmond of RISC-V points out that technologists are
adapting to a new way of working as open stan- dards increasingly
overtake proprietary approaches. "Ethernet is a great example," said
Redmond, "where proprietary approaches are now nearly nonexistent."
Redmond and her colleagues have built the RISC-V community from
scratch to become the world's most popular open and widely used
microprocessor instruction set architecture standard. Along the way,
RISC-V encountered numerous concerns about forking, especially when
companies in

the ecosystem identified missing pieces and had the temptation to
develop proprietary solutions.

To avoid fragmentation in the community, Redmond and her team work
hard to gather participants and align efforts on the missing pieces.
"We have to run really fast to catch up with our community," said
Redmond. "It's a different skill set. Most people have built
proprietary strongholds. We need people who know how to orchestrate
true collaboration. Our CTO comes from Sun Microsystems, where he was
responsible for Solaris. He is very community-oriented. You need to
find those people with the skills for ecosystem leadership."

##### ALIGN OPEN SOURCE PROJECTS AROUND SHARED GOALS

Open source foundations are reluctant to play a lead role in identi-
fying and championing winning open source projects, arguing that
picking winners is a marketplace function. However, leaders do see a
need for better project curation and want foundations and other

[]{#_bookmark22 .anchor}ecosystem participants to make greater efforts
to align projects with similar objectives. "We nurture multiple
projects, and some- times they overlap," said Gabriele Columbro,
general manager of [**Linux Foundation
Europe**](https://linuxfoundation.eu/). "But the most mature
foundations have a project life cycle where they can help coalesce
efforts and even consolidate projects." Columbro says that survival of
the fittest, or "open source Darwinism," will usually dictate which
projects are ultimately sustainable. However, he and other open source
leaders agree that bringing similar projects under a shared umbrella
can eliminate duplication, economize overhead, and reduce so-called
"vendor fatigue." In some instances, foundations could also do

a better job killing or archiving projects. "We are very good at
bringing projects in," said Columbro. "But it's equally important we
do a great job cycling projects through the life cycle and shelving
projects when necessary."

##### STRENGTHEN INTER-FOUNDATION COLLABORATION ON ECOSYSTEM CHALLENGES

The need for enhanced collaboration between open source projects and
foundations extends to other priorities for the ecosys- tem, including
joint efforts to advance open source advocacy on a range of Internet
governance issues. Mark Surman of the Mozilla Foundation said
foundation leaders could leverage the communi- ty's shared values as a
starting point for collaboration. "The open source community is united
by core values such as independence, decentralization, public assets,
and public benefits," said Surman. "In essence, we agree on the vital
role of the commons." The next step is to convene the foundation
leaders and work together to identify shared policy goals. "What are
possible threads of unity, and to what ends should we pull them?" asks
Surman.

One goal that all ecosystem leaders agree on is the need to build
trust and confidence in OSS and support the ongoing maintenance of
critical open source infrastructure. "The cybersecurity order from the
White House has put the ecosystem on notice," said Jerry

Cuomo of IBM. "Now, the stewards of open source need to step up. It
would be huge if the community had a shared ledger and audit system
where we could demonstrate that the software is robust and secure. We
need a transparent, ecosystem-wide view of our vulnerabilities, and we
need to be able to predict potential problems. That's an OSS service
that the community can trust."

Open source security and sustainability are top of mind, but eco-
system leaders point to various policy issues on which open source
foundations could find common ground. "The foundations should do more
to educate policymakers and work on shared issues such as data
security, intellectual property, antitrust, and privacy, among other
things," said Peixin Hou of Huawei. "We urgently need global action on
these issues."

Confronting techno-nationalism and fostering global inclusion
-------------------------------------------------------------

The recommendations for confronting techno-nationalism and fostering
global inclusion include positioning foundations as neutral actors,
building reputation frameworks and audit systems for open source code,
and creating tools and protocols for inte- grating diverse
contributors into open source communities.

##### BUILD REPUTATION FRAMEWORKS

Adherence to transparent and secure development protocols is,
ultimately, the best antidote to fears that national interests could
taint or even corrupt open source projects. "To counter the tech-
no-nationalism, we need to instill trust in the software develop- ment
process," said Jim Zemlin. For example, Zemlin proposes the creation
of reputation frameworks with better peer review and third-party
audits. "We need trust networks that are transparent and scalable
enough to work across open source communities," said Zemlin. "You can
think of it as a liquidity of trust. Where you are from and whom you
work for are not as relevant as knowing

that your work is trustworthy and high-quality. It's the code that is
vital. So we need a reputation framework for the codebase."

##### POSITION FOUNDATIONS AND PROJECTS AS NEUTRAL ACTORS

In addition to reputation frameworks, positioning open source
foundations and projects as impartial actors is critical to creating a
neutral home for global collaboration. Establishing neutral,
inclusive, and transparent structures for collaboration will not only
broaden participation but can also reduce incentives for ecosystem
participants to create parallel efforts. Reflecting on his work at
ICANN, Rod Beckstrom said his number-one job was building a neutral
zone in the domain name system that holds the Internet together. "We
did everything we could to bring China and Russia into the tent," said
Beckstrom. "We were doing it for the global community. Otherwise, we
are starting from a position of mistrust." Likewise, building
confidence in ICANN's protocols and decision-making process was
critical to creating a produc- tive relationship with countries that
were suspicious of American dominance of Internet governance. "As long
as the system works openly and fairly, everyone can participate," said
Beckstrom. "The Internet is a global infrastructure---it must remain
neutral. It's to the benefit of the world."

##### EDUCATE POLICYMAKERS ABOUT THE DOWNSIDES OF TECHNO-NATIONALISM

To combat techno-nationalism, ecosystem leaders must convince
policymakers that restricting the transfer of critical innovations
across national borders is paradoxical and self-defeating in a world
where cross-border collaborations are the backbone of countless
innovation communities. Calista Redmond and others argue that open
source and global standards provide a superior path for both local and
global economic growth because global collaboration

leads to global markets with long-term strategic importance. "Every
country has a home-team bias, but the growing techno-nationalism is a
major concern," said Redmond. "We need to educate the com- munity and
the policymakers about the downsides of techno-na- tionalism.
Countries can fund companies and initiatives locally,

but they must participate globally. Countries won't be successful if
they close off collaboration at national borders." Columbro even

adopted that perspective as a motto to define the mission of Linux
Foundation Europe: "Collaborate locally, innovate globally."

##### CREATE THE CONDITIONS TO INTEGRATE DIVERSE CONTRIBUTORS

The challenges of integrating different languages and cultures into
open source communities are not new problems, and there is
considerable confidence in the ecosystem's capacity to foster global
inclusion. As Stormy Peters at GitHub explains, "The open source
community has been integrating diversity for a long time. We have
people contributing from across Europe, Asia, Africa, and South
America. We have always understood the importance of international
networks and communications, even more than the corporate community.
We have leveraged asynchronous commu- nications to address the fact
that users in some regions had less Internet bandwidth."

The sheer number of people that GitHub and other organizations are
onboarding into the global open source community provides proof of the
ecosystem's progress in integrating diverse contributors. "We have
proven that open source projects can operate globally," said Peters.
"We are working effectively across regions and in multiple languages.
We are creating OSPOs to structure the engagement of companies and
organizations with the open source community."

Open source leaders agree, however, that the community can do more to
promote global inclusion. For example, open source

leaders underlined the need to invest in rapid machine translation

[]{#_bookmark23 .anchor}capabilities for project communications. Open
source leaders also discussed the importance of promoting open source
norms, taming the industry's macho "bro" culture, and fostering
professionalism

in community dialogues and decision-making. Finally, collaboration
platforms such as GitHub can enable open source communities to
integrate diverse contributions at scale. Key advances in the GitHub
platform include new tools to improve collaboration, translate mate-
rials, and monitor the productivity and engagement of community
members. "We believe we have the tools to bring open source col-
laboration to a new level," said Peters.

Final thoughts
--------------

By any yardstick, OSS is wildly successful. Hundreds of millions of
users of set-top boxes, smart fridges, and other home appli- ances use
OSS, and billions of people use it indirectly whenever they access
Google, Facebook, or the myriad of other apps and

websites. Whether you drive a Tesla, Toyota, or Mercedes, chances are
very high it's running Linux and open source in the back- ground.32 So
too are the supercomputers that power everything from advanced climate
models to AI-enabled drug discovery and other scientific pursuits,
such as astronomy, meteorology, and nuclear physics.33

The global open source community powering these innovations is
encountering some inevitable fragmentation. Some of the frag-
mentation in software development is essential to how the open source
community functions. A globally decentralized ecosystem may produce
some overlap, but its constant churn of incremen- tal innovation and
improvement has yielded a vast reservoir of software building blocks
for the digital economy.

In other instances, fragmentation in the community is creating
needless redundancy, driving up costs and complexity for producers and
consumers alike. Worst of all, intensifying techno- nationalism could
introduce new geopolitical fault lines, disrupting the free flow of
ideas and restricting the community's access to talented developers.

Now it is up to the community of developers, public and private sector
organizations, companies, foundations, and beyond to continue to push
for global collaboration. The open source commu- nity is larger, more
diverse, and more capable than ever, but its progress is not forever
inevitable. It is incumbent upon the commu- nity's leaders to take the
necessary steps to continue these trendlines into the future.