![](media/image1.jpeg)

A Road Map to Improve the Effectiveness and Impact of Enterprise Open
Source Development

**February 2023**

Ibrahim Haddad, Ph.D.

Vice President, Strategic Programs (AI & Data)

Foreword by Jessica Murillo

VP and Delivery Practice Leader, IBM

Contents
========

[**Foreword 3**](#foreword)

[**Introduction 5**](#introduction)

[**Hire developers from the project's community
7**](#hire-developers-from-the-projects-community)

[**Support and allocate time for upstream contributions
7**](#hire-developers-from-the-projects-community)

[**Create a mentorship program 8**](#_bookmark3)

[**Offer training 9**](#offer-training)

[**Participate in and host open source events 9**](#offer-training)

[**Provide a flexible IT infrastructure 9**](#offer-training)

[**Track developer code contributions 10**](#_bookmark5)

[**Identify focus areas with a broad impact 10**](#_bookmark5)

[**Foster internal collaboration 10**](#_bookmark5)

[**Implement inner sourcing practices
11**](#implement-inner-sourcing-practices)

[**Recommendations and lessons learned
12**](#recommendations-and-lessons-learned)

[Be patient 12](#recommendations-and-lessons-learned)

[Embrace a flexible IT infrastructure
12](#recommendations-and-lessons-learned)

[Adopt proper success metrics
12](#recommendations-and-lessons-learned)

[Use a lightweight approval process
12](#recommendations-and-lessons-learned)

[Share information 12](#recommendations-and-lessons-learned)

[Make strategic contributions 13](#make-strategic-contributions)

[Partner with product teams 13](#make-strategic-contributions)

[Grow open source talent 14](#grow-open-source-talent)

[**Conclusion 15**](#conclusion)

[**Acknowledgments 17**](#acknowledgments)

[**Feedback 17**](#acknowledgments)

[**Linux Foundation resources 17**](#acknowledgments)

[**About the author 18**](#_bookmark12)

Foreword
========

"In real open source, you have the right to control your own destiny."

**-- LINUS TORVALDS, CREATOR OF THE LINUX KERNEL**

A lot has changed in the past 20 years since technology companies,
like IBM, began their open source journey. In the first 10 years,
enterprises started by contributing to open source projects to help
fill their needs; they made strategic investments

in technology, collaboration and communities and built an entirely new
ecosystem. In the next 10 years, we saw the emergence

of hyperscale cloud providers and Fortune 500 companies that shifted
from being passive consumers to proactive participants in open source
communities. This heightened collaboration spurred even faster
innovation.

We have learned that companies who only participate in open source on
an ad-hoc basis cannot achieve long-term success. The key is for
companies to take a more structured, enterprise approach, putting open
source at the core of their technology strategy. To truly benefit from
the open source community model, each contributor is responsible for
making the necessary investments in those communities. This includes
providing open source developers from your company with the proper
tooling, training, and mentoring to become strong community
contributors and grow into leaders. It means we need to work together
to solve not only the problems that scratch our own itch, but by
broadening the scope of influence and focusing our

time and talent to improve the code base and remediate issues in open
source software if they arise. That is what it means to be a good
member of an open source community.

This document provides an overview and step by step guide for
companies to engage in open source development, no matter where you
are on your journey.

**JESSICA MURILLO**

**VP and Delivery Practice Leader, IBM**

A ROAD MAP TO IMPROVE THE EFFECTIVENESS AND IMPACT OF ENTERPRISE OPEN
SOURCE DEVELOPMENT **3**
![](media/image6.png){width="1.954394138232721in"
height="0.1494433508311461in"}
