
Hire developers from the project's community
============================================

This critical step allows your organization to gain skills and
recognition immediately. Hiring two or three people is a great start
toward making a noticeable impact on a large project, such as the
Linux Kernel, attracting further hires and allowing enough resources
to mentor existing junior developers.

It is crucial to align corporate interests with individual interests.

It will be hard to motivate a senior open source developer to work on
a given project when their interests do not match those of their
employers. For instance, a memory management expert may

not be interested in working on file systems; therefore, finding a
match in interests is critical.

 Support and allocate time for upstream contributions
====================================================

The core principle for hiring open source developers is to support an
organization's open source strategy, development, and upstream
activities; however, in most cases, there is the expectation that open
source developers will need to be available to support product teams
due to their expertise and influence

in their respective open source projects. It is also common for
product teams to exercise their influence in an attempt to hijack the
time of the open source developers by having them work on product
development as much as possible. If this happens,

many open source developers will head to the door, seeking new
opportunities that allows them to work on their upstream project
before an organization realizes what just happened.

**FIGURE 3**

BENEFITS OF UPSTREAMING CODE
----------------------------

![](media/image38.png)Lower maintenance efforts for internally managed
code, i.e., minimizes technical debt.

Upstreamed code becomes visible to others and receives peer review and
feedback, leading to improvements.

Upstream contributions provide stability to the project. They send a
signal that the project is useful and important, which helps attract
new contributors.

Builds a positive relationship between the contributing organization
and the project community.

Upstreaming code is an effective way to provide technical leadership
and influence the project.

Upstreaming contributes to easier compliance and improved security due
to centralizing code in upstream repos.

Upstream contributions are an effective means of ensuring stability in
a company's software supply chain.

Helps organizations recruit talent from projects and retain their own
developers by engaging them with the open source innovation engine.

[]{#_bookmark3 .anchor}Therefore, creating and maintaining a
separation of upstream work and product work is essential. In other
words, a followed practice is to provide open source developers with
guaranteed time to meet their upstream aspirations and
responsibilities, especially if they are maintainers. For junior
developers, or other internal developers using open source in product
components, such interactions with the upstream community will
increase their language, communication, and technical skills. In the
absence of such an upstream time guarantee, it is easy for these team
members to become an extension of product teams, resulting in their
upstream focus drying up in favor of product development.

Create a mentorship program
===========================

Set up a mentorship program where senior, experienced open source
developers mentor junior, less experienced developers. Typically, a
mentorship program runs for three to six months, during which the
mentor supervises the mentee's work, assigns tasks, and ensures proper
results. The mentor also conducts code reviews and provides feedback
on anything the mentee produces before the mentee pushes the code to
the upstream project.

This exercise aims to increase the number of developers contributing
code to the upstream project and improve individual effectiveness by
increasing the quality of code and the percentage of code accepted
into the upstream project. In general, four to five mentees should
work with a given mentor, and, ideally, they should work in the same
area as the mentor to make code reviews more efficient.

 Formalize open source human resources tracking & performance metrics
====================================================================

Mature open source organizations almost always have an open source
developer track in their HR system. So, individuals hired as open
source developers have a good sense of how their careers will progress
within the organization. Additionally, organizations often need to
adjust their performance-based bonuses and metrics to include goals
related to open source development work. Closed source developers'
performance metrics are often different from those of open source
developers. For example, if an open source developer advocates for the
implementation of

a given feature, successfully gathers interest, and volunteers to
write the code, how would they be rated, especially if they may not
have written a single line of code?

Finally, organizations should allow a work-from-home (WFH) policy for
open source developers regardless of the general corporate policy.
During COVID-19, we witnessed organizations institute WFH policies to
allow employees to be productive while under quarantine. It was a
fascinating experiment for WFH policies, as organizations continued to
operate, innovate, and produce, even though most of their employees
worked from home. A WFH policy is almost mandatory in the open source
world because open source developers are located worldwide, making
hiring and retaining them easier.

