Offer training
==============

It is only possible for organizations to hire some of the senior and
most expert developers. They are always looking for ways to increase
the competence of their developers in a given technical domain;
therefore, in addition to specialized

training, organizations need to offer training on the open source
development model and the basic concepts of open source legal
compliance.

Sample training courses include:

-   An open source development methodology course that teaches staff new
    to open source how open source development works and how to get best
    engaged with the project community

-   An open source compliance course that teaches staff the basics of
    compliance principles and open source

licensing. The course often includes modules covering the
organization's policy and process.

The Linux Foundation offers several technical training courses
specific to open source technologies and several
[[nontechnical]{.underline}](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/full-catalog)
[[courses]{.underline}](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/full-catalog),
such as this free online open source compliance training for
developers.

 Participate in and host open source events
==========================================

Mature open source organizations support and encourage their
developers to host, attend, and participate in open source conferences
and events, including local community meetups, hackathons, and
summits. Such participation helps open source developers connect
personally with their peers, build relationships, and participate in
technical discussions that guide the direction of the respective open
source projects.

As an organization that uses and adopts open source software, it is
highly recommended to facilitate for your open source developers the
process of attending and presenting at open source events. You can
also sponsor big and small events

to increase external visibility within the open source global
community or simply target events tailored for specific open source
projects. As a bonus benefit, such events are also great venues to
look for talent.

Provide a flexible IT infrastructure
====================================

Provide a flexible IT infrastructure that allows open source
developers to communicate and work with the open source and Linux
Kernel communities without any challenges. Additionally, set up an
internal IT infrastructure that matches the tools used externally to
help bridge the gap between internal teams and the Kernel community or
any other open source project community for that purpose.

[]{#_bookmark5 .anchor}Open source development uses three primary
domains of IT services: knowledge sharing (wikis, collaborative
editing

platforms, and public websites), communication and problem solving
(mailing lists, forums, and real-time chat), and code development and
distribution (code repositories and bug tracking). Making some or all
of these tools available internally properly supports open source
development. However, this might conflict with existing
organization-wide IT policies. If so, it is vital to resolve these
conflicts and allow open source developers to use familiar tools.

Track developer code contributions
==================================

Create an internal system to keep track of developer contributions and
impact. Contributions can include upstream development, supporting
product teams, knowledge transfer (mentoring, training), visibility
(publications, talks), launching new open source projects, and
establishing internal collaboration projects with other teams or
groups.

With this data, you can compare contributions from various internal
development teams to identify where source code contributions are
coming from.

For instance, you can use these metrics to compare your performance to
other organizations involved in the Kernel ecosystem. This approach
helps better inform you about the overall developer ecosystem for the
project. In addition, these metrics provide a much better idea of your
strengths and weaknesses and can help inform your overall development
strategy.

 Identify focus areas with a broad impact
========================================

Contribute to and focus on areas that benefit more than one business
unit or more than one product. This contribution model, driven by the
criticality of software components, allows you to provide value and
show return on investment

across multiple business units, increasing your chances for more
funding and support.

Foster internal collaboration
=============================

Create collaboration projects with other business units that use the
specific open source projects in their products. These collaborations
can take one or more of many forms:

-   Deliver training to their developers.

-   Run a workshop on a specific topic or problem.

-   Develop new functionality.

-   Troubleshoot and resolve issues and bugs.

-   Upstream existing code for which they lack resources.

-   Help get them off an old fork and onto a mainline version.

These collaborations aim to help the product teams understand their
needs and fulfill their product goals via open source enablement.
