
Recommendations and lessons learned
===================================

### Be patient

It takes considerable time to grow internal open source expertise. The
goal from an enterprise perspective is to find people with enough peer
recognition to be influential in the community. There are typically
three pillars to this: domain expertise, open source methodology, and
working practices.

### Shift to a more collaborative environment

Internal organization dynamics must be favorable to open source
efforts. Implementing these practices requires a shift from
traditional software development practices to a more open and
collaborative mindset. As an open source leader inside

your organization, you will face several challenges in funding
resources, justifying ROI, getting upstream focus, etc. These often
require a major shift in mindset and a lot of education up the command
chain.

### Embrace a flexible IT infrastructure

These open source practices require an IT infrastructure free from
many limiting IT policies and a computing environment that supports
open source development.

### Adopt proper success metrics

Proper open source metrics drive the desired development behavior.
Unfortunately, the traditional metrics often used in product
organizations only apply in the context of open source development.
For example, we have had multiple instances of the upstream
implementation of desired functionality because of OSG developers that
lobby for support from the community.

In this case, the number of changesets or lines of code does not
matter as much, as the technical leadership team members provide to
get code upstream and reduce our downstream maintenance efforts. The
metrics we track account for things like this.

### Use a lightweight approval process

Organizations have transitioned from highly complex and cumbersome
policies to a more straightforward approach for receiving, reviewing,
and approving source code contributions. Dedicated open source teams
often receive blanket approval to contribute to open source projects.
This is not the case for other groups, which need different approval
levels depending on the nature of the contributed code (e.g., simple
bug fixes, code to improve existing functionality, code that offers
new functionality, or starting a new project). This is a function of
the balance between all parties involved: legal, engineering, and open
source.

### Share information

The organization must share information and priorities across
different divisions. To illustrate this, assume you are on an open
source team and request to support the implementation of a driver, but
you cannot access the hardware manual and

instructions. This situation sounds a bit like playing darts with the
lights off; therefore, information sharing is critical to successful
internal collaborations between the open source teams and everyone
else.

### Make strategic contributions

Focus your contributions on upstream projects that would directly
benefit the organization's strategy and products. In open source
development, it is easy to get carried away by hopping between
different exciting projects. However, in an enterprise setting where
the open source group is a cost center, your driving force should be
to focus on open source projects that support product development.
Open source teams often perform a yearly review of the product
portfolio they support and focus their involvement on open source
projects commonly used across as many products as possible. Such a
methodology drives priorities and is a great way to remain focused on
what's essential, justifiable, and fundable.

###  Partner with product teams

Be the upstream partner for product teams; they often feel like they
are working inside a pressure cooker, especially in a consumer
electronics environment. They often seem

understaffed, need more critical resources to support parallel
upstream development, and are under constant pressure for feature
delivery within tight schedules. In such an environment, it is easy to
overlook the benefit of upstreaming in favor of short-term time
savings, which can, unfortunately, lead to technical debt that has a
higher cost in the long term.

Open source teams can help by being a partner that focuses on
delivering the necessary code upstream, reducing this technical debt.

![](media/image49.png)**FIGURE 5**

RECOMMENDED PRACTICES FOR CONTRIBUTING TO OPEN SOURCE PROJECTS
--------------------------------------------------------------

Design & implement with upstreaming in mind to increase the likelihood
of patch acceptance.

Ensure the contribution improves or introduces functionality that is
useful for a broad base of users.

Stay involved in upstream development post merging with the upstream
project.

Document the code to make it easier to understand and to lower the
barrier for new contributors.

Upstream for the right reasons.

Upstreaming is not a code retirement strategy.

Listen to feedback, and act upon it---rework the code based on the
peer review process.

Follow proper coding style, and secure code guidelines.

Follow the processes set by the project for submitting code, new
features, etc.

### Grow open source talent

Grow open source talent in specific technology areas relevant to your
products. Hiring a few resources from outside the organization is
easy, but this approach has several limitations. The alternative
approach is to convert your existing developers into open source
contributors via training on the technical domain and open source
methodology. You can then pair these developers with a mentor to
further expand their skills.

Encourage developers outside the open source team to learn from and
contribute to the open source community. We provide as much help as we
can with upstream code contributions.

Still, we need more resources and sometimes need a deeper
understanding of products that might be necessary to identify where we
can adequately upstream code. Better involvement in the open source
community from teams outside our own allows us to get more critical
code upstream and improves our ability to interact with the community.
