

Conclusion
==========

You must earn open source leadership, but you can lose it through a
lack of participation. Regular, ongoing participation and contribution
are the only ways to ensure your organization maintains open source
leadership.

Hopefully, this paper makes the task of improving your enterprise's
open source practices more manageable. Following some of the
recommended practices will go a long way toward developing internal
open source expertise. You can leverage this expertise to improve your
products and services and reduce

the cost of code maintenance. Many organizations have had considerable
success through the use of these strategies.

**FIGURE 6**

MASTERING OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE
------------------------------

Master open source software requires you to mastering the three
critical Cs:

**Consumption **

**Compliance **

**Contribution **

Establish internal infrastructure to enable proper practices for open
source software consumption: policy, process, checklists, and
training.

Enable open source compliance practices within your development
process to ensure proper fulfillment of open source license
obligations once products ship.

Enable your developers to engage within open source projects via a
policy and a lightweight process and access to legal support. Provide
training on open source development models and best practices.

**FIGURE 8**

ELEVEN TIPS FOR MASTERING:
--------------------------

**OPEN SOURCE CONTRIBUTIONS**

How can you build a healthy environment for open source contributions
within your organization?

1.  Establish a policy and process to guide open source contributions.

2.  Set up a team to oversee approvals for all open source
    contributions.

3.  Focus contributions in the areas that will enable your technologies.

4.  Provide the needed IT infrastructure and tooling for contributors.

5.  Offer training to your staff on contribution best practices.

6.  Track contributions, measure impact, improve, and communicate.

7.  Establish a mentorship program to train less experienced developers.

8.  Provide contributions guidelines, How-To's, Do's and Don'ts.

9.  Make open source legal support accessible to developers.

10. Hire from the open source communities you value the most.

11. Always follow community processes / practices of specific projects.

Acknowledgments
===============

The author would like to express his sincere appreciation to his Linux
Foundation colleagues Hilary Carter, Jason Perlow, Melissa Schmidt,
Jessica Murillo and Barry Hall for their valuable reviews and
feedback. This report has benefited immensely from their experiences,
reviews, and contributions.

Feedback
========

The author apologizes in advance for any spelling errors or possible
errors and is grateful to receive corrections and suggestions for
improvements.

 Linux Foundation resources
==========================

-   **E-book:** [[A Deep Dive into Open Source Program
    Offices:]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/tools/a-deep-dive-into-open-source-program-offices/)
    [[Structure, Roles, Responsibilities, and
    Challenges]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/tools/a-deep-dive-into-open-source-program-offices/)

-   **E-book:** [[A Guide to Enterprise Open Source
    ]{.underline}](https://linuxfoundation.org/tools/guide-to-enterprise-open-source/)

-   **E-book**: [[Open Source Compliance in the
    Enterprise]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/blog/an-introduction-to-open-source-compliance-in-the-enterprise)

-   **E-book:** [[Open Source Audits in Merger and
    Acquisition]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/assessment-of-open-source-practices-as-part-of-due-diligence-in-merger-and-acquisition-transactions)
    [[Transactions]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/assessment-of-open-source-practices-as-part-of-due-diligence-in-merger-and-acquisition-transactions)

-   [[Linux Foundation Open Source Best Practices for
    the]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/open-source-guides/)
    [[Enterprise
    Guides]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/open-source-guides/)

-   [[Linux Foundation Open Source Compliance
    Program]{.underline}](https://compliance.linuxfoundation.org/)

-   [[TODO Group]{.underline}](http://todogroup.org/)

-   [[The Software Package Data
    Exchange]{.underline}®](https://spdx.dev/)

-   [[Linux Foundation Training &
    Certification]{.underline}](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/)

-   [[Linux Foundation
    Events]{.underline}](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/)

[]{#_bookmark12
.anchor}[[twitter.com/linuxfoundation]{.underline}](https://twitter.com/linuxfoundation)
[facebook.com/TheLinuxFoundation]{.underline}
[linkedin.com/company/the-linux-foundation](https://inkedin.com/)
[youtube.com/user/TheLinuxFoundation]{.underline}

 About the author
================

Dr. Ibrahim Haddad is the vice president of strategic programs at the
Linux Foundation. He focuses on facilitating a vendor-neutral
environment for advancing the open source AI platform. Haddad leads
the Linux Foundation AI & Data Foundation and the PyTorch Foundation.
His work and the work of both foundations support

companies, developers, and the open source community in identifying
and contributing to the technological projects that address industry

and technology challenges for the benefit of all participants.
Throughout his career, Haddad held technology and portfolio management
roles at Ericsson Research, the Open Source Development Labs,
Motorola, Palm, Hewlett-Packard, Samsung Research, and the Linux
Foundation. He graduated with honors from Concordia University
(Montréal, Canada) with a Ph.D. in computer science. He is fluent in
Arabic, English, and French.

[[\@ibrahimhaddad]{.underline}](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ibrahimhaddad/)
[[\@IbrahimAtLinux]{.underline}](https://twitter.com/ibrahimatlinux?lang=en)
[[IbrahimAtLinux.com]{.underline}](http://ibrahimatlinux.com/)
**Latest fun project:** [T[ux NFT
Cl](https://tuxnft.club/)ub]{.underline}

![](media/image58.png)

Founded in 2021, [[Linux Foundation
Research]{.underline}](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/research/)
explores the growing scale of open source collaboration and provides
insight into emerging technology trends, best practices, and the
global impact of open source projects. Through leveraging project
databases and networks and a commitment to best practices in
quantitative and qualitative methodologies, Linux Foundation Research
is creating the go-to library for open source insights for the benefit
of organizations the world over.

Copyright © 2023 [[The Linux
Foundation]{.underline}](https://linuxfoundation.org/)

This report is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-No
Derivatives 4.0 International Public License.

To reference the work, please cite as follows: Ibrahim Haddad, Ph.D.,
"A Road Map to Improve the Effectiveness and Impact of Enterprise Open
Source Development," Foreword by Jessica Murillo, The Linux
Foundation, February 2023.
